 is unequivocally not responsible for the slowing of the UK economy or the fall in the pound. Quite the contrary, he almost single-handedly turned around a potential collapse in output and sentiment in the days after the EU referendum on 23 June. Far from harming Britain, Carney has been the country s saviour.I have criticised the Bank of England governor rather harshly in the past, especially for his claim in August 2015, that   in the UK economy and rising inflation would  likely put the decision as to when to start the process of gradual monetary policy normalisation into  around the turn of this year .That didn t happen. But I have changed my mind. Right now we all need to stand behind Carney for the good of the country. Without him, chaos reigns.It was entirely appropriate for the prime minister to back Carney even though she undermined his position in her speech to the Conservative conference earlier this month. The mistake was waiting so long to do so. The  Mayhem  government must now do everything possible to keep him in place, for his full eight-year term. The UK has already been relegated from fifth to sixth largest economy in the world, moving behind France, as a result of the  vote, and its credit rating has been downgraded.I find it astonishing that in the space of a few days, non-economists William Hague and Michael Gove have written newspaper columns attacking central bank independence, while Daniel Hannan, a former journalist and a Eurosceptic Tory MEP, appeared on the BBC  in similar terms, in an apparently coordinated campaign.There were utterly idiotic suggestions that Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Tory MP who knows no economics and has a degree in history, should replace Carney. It was even mooted that the independent Office for Budget Responsibility forecasts should be ignored if they dared to suggest that the economy was slowing. Liam Fox, a medical doctor with no training in economics, astonishingly ordered Chancellor Philip Hammond not to start   in the latest Brexit spat. Fox apparently urged Hammond not to inject fiscal stimulus as it may cause Britons to  wrongly  panic about the impact Brexit might have on the economy. As the Bible advises:  Stay away from a fool, for you will not find knowledge on their lips  (Proverbs 14:7).The Oxford economist Simon Wren-Lewis has argued, rightly, that there seems to be a  large element of shooting the messenger in the attacks on Carney. He warned of the short-term difficulties Brexit might create, and helped take decisive action to avoid those dangers. But to the Brexiteers, it is an article of faith that Brexit can only bring good, so in their make-believe world, Carney is responsible for talking down the economy.  He isn t.But the this isn t just a spat about who said what after the Brexit vote. Threatening central bank independence raises the UK s risk premium, which is the return in excess of the risk-free rate of return an investment is expected to yield. An asset s risk premium is a form of compensation for investors who tolerate the extra risk, compared with that of a risk-free asset, in a given investment. We know that UK borrowing costs fell when the  was made independent in 1997, replacing the Ken and Eddie show. Ex-Bank of England economist and Birmingham University professor Tony Yates told me:  If Carney were to go, markets would presume we are like tinpot economies where the central bank governor, regardless of the formal framework in place, is assumed to be politically pliant.  That would be very costly.Apple has already announced  for its computers as a result of the sterling devaluation. Inflation is set to rise and living standards will start falling again after a couple of years of real wage growth. Real wages are still 7% below their pre-recession peak. The concern, as my old friend ex-MPC member Adam Posen made clear this week, is that the will UK enter a new period of stagflation, of low growth and high inflation caused by Brexit.It is early days, but negotiations on Britain s future relationship with the EU already seem to be going badly. The EU side holds all the bargaining chips, not least because 27 other governments, plus the national parliaments   including the Walloon government who objected to the EU trade deal with Canada   will have to agree to any deal. This may be as good as it gets for a while. But three cheers for Carney.