 is one of those rare books that seem to exude brilliance, power and polemical passion from the opening page, propelled by the urgency and consequence of the subject. Unlike some other rhetorical classics in this list, it executes its argument with a rapier not a blunderbuss, using the clinical ferocity of hammered steel not wild, explosive irruptions of outrage.Reading Keynes in 2017, nearly a hundred years after first publication, you don t have to know the diplomatic minutiae of the Versailles peace treaty, a notorious historical disaster, to appreciate that here is a brilliant writer (who would subsequently become a great economist) flexing his intellectual muscles for the first time on the world stage. Uniquely, too, this is a book whose subject is economics but whose message is geopolitical. It s a book, moreover, suffused with a deep and compelling sense of imminent catastrophe:  In Paris, where those connected with the Supreme Economic Council received almost hourly the reports of the misery, disorder and decaying organisation of all central and eastern Europe, allied and enemy alike, and learned from the lips of the financial representatives of Germany and Austria unanswerable evidence of the terrible exhaustion of their countries, an occasional visit to the hot, dry room in the president s house, where the Four fulfilled their destinies in empty and arid intrigue, only added to the sense of nightmare. At the time,  created an instant controversy. Keynes was the official representative of the British Treasury at the negotiations in Paris. He was in the room during all the crucial discussions about  making Germany pay , saw the protagonists of the treaty (Woodrow Wilson, Lloyd George and Clemenceau) in action at first hand, and was able to witness for himself the making of an international catastrophe:  My   most vivid impression is of   the president [Wilson] and the prime minister [Lloyd George] as the centre of a surging mob and a babel of sound, a welter of eager, impromptu compromises and counter-compromises, all sound and fury signifying nothing, on what was an unreal question anyhow, the great issues of the morning s meeting forgotten and neglected; and Clemenceau silent and aloof on the outskirts Keynes s arguments for a more generous settlement were prescient. Above all, he saw with unique clarity the geopolitical tenor and perspective expressed by the Big Four, a combination of grandeur, vanity and vengeance that would shape Europe after the great war and send it spiralling towards an even bigger catastrophe.Keynes was so disturbed by what he saw that ultimately he resigned out of the conviction that the great powers were hell-bent on drafting an unjust settlement with immeasurably terrible consequences.Keynes, who was also a member of the Bloomsbury group, wrote  in the months after his resignation, developing a devastating argument to show that the treaty was not only unfair but potentially dehumanising in its effects. The reparation measures of the Versailles treaty, he demonstrates with clinical clarity, would wreck the German economy, impoverish the German people and undermine all future hopes for peace and reconciliation. Scholars will argue about the extent to which the great German inflation of the 1920s, the first step in the rise of fascism, was a by-product of the treaty s provisions, but what Keynes brilliantly identified was the necessary interaction of sound economic policy across Europe in the maintenance of international peace among nations. This is a book that some Brexiters might do well to reread.Keynes s essay immediately became a worldwide bestseller. It rapidly became the source of conventional left-liberal wisdom on the treaty. In its mature form, this was the widespread opinion that the final document imposed on the defeated Germans at Versailles on 28 June 1919 (exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand) was a recklessly punitive,  Carthaginian  settlement.Another international consequence of Keynes s work was that his book helped to consolidate American public opinion against the treaty. Woodrow Wilson never got the treaty ratified by Congress, and the failure of his vision for a new world soured the rest of his presidency, and possibly contributed to his stroke. As a result, America s commitment to, and involvement in, the League of Nations was never more than half-hearted. In a real sense this would shape the allies  interwar response to a resurgent Germany under the Nazis. In turn, the perception among the British public that Germany had been treated unfairly would fuel the 1930s policy of  appeasement , a policy that would, in the end, lead to the outbreak of the second world war. made JM Keynes internationally famous, and established his reputation as a provocative and leading economist, a reputation that would be consolidated by the publication of his masterpiece,  (1936).And yet, for the general reader who wants to engage with the mind of Keynes at its most accessible, and entertaining,  makes perfect reading. Moreover, it is one of those very rare titles whose influence lasted long into the future. After the end of the second world war, when Keynes became a key player in establishing the Bretton Woods agreements of 1944, he remembered the lessons from Versailles as well as the depression of the 1930s. As is often pointed out, it was the Marshall plan of 1945 that came most closely to resemble the ideas of systematic reconciliation first proposed by Keynes in . A sense of impending catastrophe overhung the frivolous scene; the futility and smallness of man before the great events confronting him; the mingled significance and unreality of the decisions; levity, blindness, insolence, confused cries from without   all the elements of ancient tragedy were there. Harold Nicolson:  (1933) JM Keynes:  (1936) Robert Skidelsky:  (2004)