 health worker in Pontypool told me what happens when people lose their sense of purpose.  You don t get up in the morning. You might see a spiral in depression,  she said last week.  You lose contact with the outside world.  The dismal list went on: no self-worth, no self-confidence ...As she talked, I realised her description didn t apply only to people. Places and communities can be stripped of their purpose too. That is certainly what s happened to Pontypool.If I could send Theresa May and her chancellor, Philip Hammond, anywhere before tomorrow s , it wouldn t be to some love-in with big business at a swanky London hotel   but to this south Wales market town. It might make them think.The story of Pontypool is a story of riches squandered, of dynamism blocked, of an entire community slung on the slagheap. Sat atop vast deposits of iron ore and coal, it was probably the first industrial town in . For a time, under Victoria, it was richer than Cardiff. Even now, to look along its skyline is to see traces of wealth: the park with its Italian gardens and bandstand; the covered market with its olde price list for snipes or a brace of pheasants; the 25 listed buildings that make this one of the most sumptuous small town centres in Britain.Then look down. On a typical weekday, the indoor market is a desert. Those bits of the high street that aren t to let are betting parlours, vaping dens and charity shops: the standard parade for hollowed-out towns across Britain. The reason isn t hard to fathom: the mines shut down decades back; the factories have pretty much disappeared. Those big employers still left aren t big employers any more. One of the staff at BAE tells me that when he joined in 1982, it had 2,500 workers on its shopfloor; now, he reckons, it has 120.Swaths of Pontypool and the surrounding region of Torfaen now rank among the poorest in all Britain. On part of one of its housing estates in Trevethin, 75% of all children under four are raised in poverty. Over half   53%   of all households who live on that stretch are below the poverty line. With that come all the usual problems: families that can t pay the rent, that are more likely to fall prey to a whole range of sicknesses, from mental health to cancer. Those people can expect to die 20 years before their near-neighbours in some of the better-off areas in Pontypool. First the economy died out, now its people are too.Pontypool is like the rest of south Wales, like many other parts of Britain I have reported from. It s what politicians and economists call  post-industrial . That term, though, implies something coming after; here, hardly anything has come after. A few years ago Pontypool town centre was declared  by a local councillor, who bore a coffin lid in a mock funeral procession.It s a similar story in Hull, Sunderland, in so many places across Britain. For three decades Tories and Labour thought they could buy the acquiescence of residents with benefits and public-sector jobs. Then came the 2008 crash and the cuts that have followed. Then came the Brexit referendum. a few weeks before that vote   and it was on that trip that the suspicion dawned that the remain camp didn t have it in the bag at all. True to form,  to leave the EU.If May is to have any hope of lasting in No 10, it will be places such as Pontypool that she needs to pacify. The early signs do not look good. Everything promised or leaked from the autumn statement so far this week   the cuts in business taxes, the extra billion pounds for new roads, and infrastructure   south Wales has had some version of already, and nothing has worked.After the heavy industry went, the future for south Wales was meant to lie in luring new business investment. Mark Hooper, a local social entrepreneur, terms it the  Welsh dowry : the advance the Welsh elite gives to any multinational that promises to settle down with them. Count among that the millions the Cardiff government spent on bringing in an , even building billionaire Jeff Bezos a new road. Add the millions lavished on . Most of all, look at the LG factory into which Westminster and Cardiff pumped so much political and financial capital   and which was . As the first Brexit chancellor, Hammond s growth strategy mostly consists of doing the same across the rest of the UK. I see no reason why it should work any better.In the heart of Trevethin, the poorest stretch in all of Pontypool, I asked two community councillors how many of their residents would count as     May s latest coinage. One in three families, they reckoned, were not managing at all, simply landing themselves in more debt. As for the rest, they were barely holding it together in the face of the benefit cuts. I have good working people knocking on my door for help,  Jon Harlor told me. He remembered how  one girl came to me in tears . A young mum of three and a shop worker on zero hours, she never knew how much her income would be from week to week   and the tax credits were no help.  They re reliant on the food banks to smooth out the peaks and the troughs. What would it take to fix a place such as Pontypool? First, reverse the benefit cuts   which are a wrecking ball for communities of the working poor. Second, drop the hi-vis and hard hats of infrastructure spend. Such offerings might draw multinationals into central London; they don t work here.Finally, learn one of the hardest lessons of Brexit: the reason the political geography of Britain is so divided is because its economic geography is so unequal. Treasury levers and Bank of England billions are barely any use here. Instead, what s needed is an attentiveness to place.In his Deep Place studies of local Welsh economies, the academic Mark Lang starts from what places like Pontypool already have, and what can be built on. He pulls together members of the community and asks them what they need. His  on Pontypool shares a lot with the work on the foundational economy done by the , which i ve written about here before. It starts from a recognition that chasing multinationals and chain retailers pays only limited dividends in a place that s had its purpose stripped out. It argues for focusing on what locals need: social care, good schools, broadband. This isn t Westminster politics with its big announcements, or even Cardiff politics and its ribbon-cutters  charter. It s more modest, perhaps even pessimistic. To me, it rings more true.