The  100 reached another new peak on Tuesday and broke a near 20-year record for its longest run of closing highs. The index jumped 37.70 points or 0.52% to end the day at 7,275, its ninth consecutive day of closing highs, beating the eight-day run in May 1997 following Labour¡¯s general election landslide under Tony Blair.The latest boost for investors has come mainly from the weakness of the pound since the uncertainty created by the  vote last June. Sterling has lost more than 18% against the dollar and is hovering close to 31-year lows, excluding October¡¯s flash crash. It has fallen 12% against the euro.By the time the London market closed, the pound was flat at $1.2164, having fallen sharply on Monday followng comments from Theresa May suggesting a hard Brexit was on the cards. Over the weekend the prime minister , which appeared to quash hopes of retaining access to the single market.The plunging pound has lifted the FTSE 100 because it is packed with overseas earners and international businesses such as mining companies. A weak pound boosts their dollar revenues and profits and makes their goods more competitive. A stable performance from the UK economy despite the dire warnings ahead of the EU referendum also provided support for the market, and a recovery in the oil price was another factor in the rise of commodity companies.Mining companies were among the main gainers in 2016, with the FTSE mining index up 100% over the year, and they have continued to help push the market higher since the turn of the year. Four of the top 10 risers on the FTSE 100 on Tuesday were commodity companies, with Anglo American šC up more 313% since the start of 2016 šC leading the way. Supermarkets also helped push the FTSE 100 to its new record after .The comparative weakness of sterling has also attracted overseas investors looking for bargains in the market despite the Brexit risks, and reopened the prospect of international companies snapping up UK peers at cheaper prices. The FTSE 100 may continue to move higher if, as expected, the pound continues to struggle. Michael Hewson, the chief market analyst at CMC Markets, said: ¡°Markets once again appear to be pricing in the prospect of a so-called hard Brexit, and the extra costs that the leaving of the single market might entail, which has once again seen the pound come under pressure. ¡°With the March deadline for article 50 fast approaching, the uncertainty [over Brexit] isn¡¯t likely to diminish, and this may well pressure the pound further in weeks ahead.¡±The FTSE 100¡¯s rise is also part of a general move higher for most major global markets after the surprise election of Donald Trump as US president, and  Both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 have hit new peaks in recent weeks. After coming within a whisker of the elusive 20,000 barrier on Friday before falling back, the Dow rebounded in early trading on Tuesday to within 60 points of it.Even the more UK domestically focused FTSE 250 hit a new closing high of 18,413 on Tuesday, although it remains below its all time peak of 18,607 reached on 4 Ocober 2016.  The FTSE 100¡¯s record winning streak came against a very different background to the May 1997 gains. Then the market was boosted by Blair¡¯s attempts to distance himself from previous Labour administrations and the trade unions, his move to abandon nationalisation and income tax rises, and the decision to give the Bank of England independence to set interest rates.The FTSE 100 itself was a very different creature, with just one mining company in the form of RTZ, now Rio Tinto, a large proportion of consumer goods groups such as Cadbury Schweppes, EMI, Bass and Allied Domecq, and several utilities including Thames Water, PowerGen and Scottish Power.With the dotcom boom a couple of years away, the main technology companies were telecoms group such at British Telecommunications, Cable and Wireless, Vodafone and Orange.															