Anyone seeking an explanation for the bloody nose received by the government in the election should start with wages, prices and living standards.Sure, the Conservatives fought a terrible campaign. True, Theresa May s shortcomings were exposed. No question, the  by Labour played a big part in the result.But the bedrock of any successful election campaign is the state of the economy and, in particular, whether or not . In May 2015, when David Cameron won, real incomes were rising. Currently, as the  show, voters are getting poorer.Cameron could hardly have chosen a better moment to go to the country. In the spring of 2015, the  meant the annual inflation rate was hovering around zero.  by almost 3% a year, which meant living standards were increasing by a similar amount.According to the Office for National Statistics, the  as measured by the consumer prices index was 2.9% in May, while earnings in the three months to April were 2.1% up on the same period a year earlier. The figures for May will be released on Wednesday, but are unlikely to show much change to the recent .The upward pressure on prices initially came from a recovery in oil prices, but has subsequently been the result of the  of the pound, which has . For a time, UK consumers were protected from the impact of the weakness of sterling because importers were hedged against currency movements. But those hedges have now expired, leaving retailers with little choice .Had May won the landslide , the government would have been able to ride out this difficult period. Inflation is likely to go up a bit further, but the ONS s separate , which measure the cost of goods leaving factory gates and provide a guide to inflationary pressure early in the pipeline, appear to have peaked. Moreover,  will  and this will eventually feed through into a fall in inflation.But May is a weakened prime minister  and she doesn t have time on her side. The government has recognised that voters are unhappy about falling living standards and have had enough of cuts. Deficit reduction will now play second fiddle to the need to raise real incomes, so expect a generous uplift in the minimum wage and an easing of curbs on public sector pay as signs that the age of austerity is over.															