ay what you want about , and believe me I most certainly will, but the early years of the New Labour government at least had a sense of energy to them. Policies both good and bad were pushed with passion and certainty. You could disagree with them, but there was something to disagree with.Yet over the last decade since the financial crisis the centre ground has been markedly bereft of ideas. The right has assumed its natural mantle as the party of authority and nostalgia, standing athwart history shouting  Stop, in fact reverse, go back, we don t like any of this! In response, the centre has gravitated to a position of managing expectations down. They may lament the  and the , but their solutions are the bland semolina of the status quo rather than actually doing anything about it.Part of this is down to the elevation of compromise as a virtue in and of itself. While it s true that principles without power can be of little practical use, holding that  the right answer must be somewhere in the middle  means you have to accommodate people who are utterly wrong. In a debate between people who say the Earth is a sphere and those who say it is flat, it is not sensible or moderate to suggest that it may be a cube.For instance, look at the economist Mariana Mazzucato s  on Newsnight. Faced with a Tory MP saying  we inherited a huge deficit from Labour , repeating again the  myth of Labour profligacy, Mazzucato shot back that, after the huge financial crash in 2007, governments all over the world  saved capitalism from itself  which resulted in rising deficits. Had the Conservatives not inherited a deficit they would have inherited a country wracked with monstrous levels of unemployment and a financial sector set ablaze.Mazzucato s position is uncontroversial to economists, but in politics it seems totally accepted that  economic credibility  equals  reducing the deficit , even though deficit targeting policies produce . Having compromised over an issue which was flat out wrong, centrists are now as tied to the wrong side as the Tories who proposed it.It s also possible there s a more fundamental factor in play beyond the mere human aversion to admitting you were wrong. Two decades on from 1997, it s increasingly clear that the economic system on which Blair rode to power is all but played out. James Galbraith has argued that we are at   as far as strong growth and rising productivity is concerned. The toxic-debt-ridden growth that led to the crash was the financial sector s answer to fracking, a last ditch attempt to push a system beyond its natural limits, regardless of the environmental damage.We tend to think of economics as a scientific endeavour, an attempt to get to the real and immutable truths of things. In reality it is better to think of economics as a technological process, with the systems, institutions and laws governing the economy forming an economic machinery.Technologies develop in overlapping  . New technology starts off slowly   James Watt invents the steam engine. Over the years technology improves, better steam engines are built, which leads to steam engines becoming ubiquitous, which accelerates the improvement. Then the curve begins to flatten out. You can no longer build a better steam engine because steam engines can t get any better.To get better results you need to jump from the top of the curve of the mature technology to the bottom of the curve in a new technology, as with steam to diesel. In order to do this, you have to remember that the aim was never a better steam engine, but a faster locomotive. Asking  how do I build a better steam engine  might have been the right question before, but now it s the wrong one.So, what if the current economic technology is at the top of its S-curve? What if all the low-hanging fruits we can get with our current machinery are gone, and any innovations and improvements we can expect to get out of this system are marginal, scarce, and liable to explode in our faces? Asking how to produce more growth or how to have a larger GDP may have been the right questions before, but now they are the wrong ones.There is no use in backwards-looking conservatism. We can t invoke the postwar boom with cargo-cult rituals designed to replicate the social structures of the period, any more than we can rerun the industrial revolution by reinventing the steam engine.We need to remember that the aim of the economic machinery we have in place was to improve human society, not to improve economic indicators for their own sakes. If the prospect of improvement with the current technology is slim, we need to be prepared to start tearing out old systems and putting in something new. Dig up the road, pull out the copper, put in the fibre optics. It s messy and disruptive, but necessary.I do not know what form a new economic technology will take, because the future is unknowable. But I have my opinions as to the kinds of things which should go towards forming its foundations. For example, Kate Raworth s concept of   as a brand new way of conceptualising economic development without being tied to infinite growth is up there as a useful idea.Just as the shift from an agrarian to an industrialised economy called out for unions to secure rights for the new urban workforce, the current mutation of work needs a response. Whatever the correct response will be   a , or a , or a job guarantee, or all of these, or something else   pretending it s unnecessary is transparently false.To paraphrase Barry Goldwater, stability in the face of decline is no virtue, and disruption in pursuit of a better future is no vice.															