Borrowing on credit cards and loans grew at its fastest rate in almost a decade in October, according to figures from Britain s high street banks, as lenders competed to offer the best deals.The British Bankers  Association (BBA) said consumer credit was up by 7% year on year, the fast annual rate of growth since November 2006. In total, net unsecured borrowing increased by ?633m during the month, up from ?465m in September.The borrowing spree was fuelled by an increase in personal loans and overdrafts. On a seasonally adjusted basis, net borrowing added up to ?413m, higher than the previous six-month average of ?286m. Outstanding borrowing on credit cards grew by ?220m   just above the six-month average of ?211m.Lenders have been battling to top the best-buy tables for personal loans and credit cards. Interest rates have been cut and deals have been changed. In October, First Direct  its customers through personal loans to ?50,000, and credit card companies have been extending interest-free periods. , according to official figures, and the BBA s data suggests some of that spending was done on credit.Rebecca Harding, chief economist at the BBA, said: Consumer credit is now growing at its fastest rate since November 2006, reflecting strong retail sales growth. Consumer confidence remains robust as borrowers take advantage of record low interest rates. Paul Gordon, managing director of credit cards at Lloyds Banking Group, said the figures suggested consumers  are proving relatively resilient in the face of continued uncertainty . He added:  As we move towards the end of the calendar year, we can expect that the use of credit cards will continue to rise   particularly in relation to Black Friday and Christmas sales   but the impact of recent political and economic changes on borrowing patterns is yet to be seen. The BBA s seasonally adjusted figures for mortgage lending show that the number of home loans approved for house purchases reached a five-month high in October, at 40,851. The number of remortgages dropped slightly to 24,622 but the number of other loans secured on property rose to 8,847   its highest since January 2014.Andrew Wishart, assistant economist at Capital , said approvals for purchases were now not far off the monthly average of 43,000 that the BBA reported in 2015,  with the short-term effect of the referendum on housing market confidence and activity now seemingly behind us .He added:  But with recent strong demand from first-time buyers set to be hampered by higher inflation, and credit standards no looser than last year, we don t expect approvals to surge.  															