British tourists returning from continental holidays last week arrived at airports in various states of shock. The pound s slump in value against the euro reached an eight-year low during their trips and many holidaymakers bore tales of the woes they had endured at foreign cash machines. You do become more aware of it each time you take money out,  said Tom Wake as he and his wife Pip made their way through Stansted airport after a break in Pisa.  The rate shifted quite a bit when we were away, so it became quite noticeable and  is there in the back of your mind. Everyone seems to be talking about it over there   they can t really understand why we re doing it. The recent swing against sterling prompted predictions that Britain s currency may now be trending towards parity with the euro   although analysts later revised forecasts. Nevertheless, the euro is now worth 92p compared with 70p before last year s Brexit referendum.It s a hit that is felt keenly with every British order for beer on the Spanish costas or for croissants on the French riviera. Alan Rylett and his wife, who had travelled with a group of friends to Italy, greeted the exchange rate difference with a weary shrug of the shoulder.  We took some money out before we went, so it wasn t too bad,  he said.  The shops were a bit more expensive. Eating out was not too bad actually, apart from the very touristy areas where you get ripped off regardless of what rate it is. Others, including some coming back from non-eurozone countries, were less than impressed.  It wouldn t stop us from travelling, but it is an annoyance,  said Yvette Franco, who was returning from Denmark. I remember getting something like 115 Danish krone for around ?10, which didn t feel great. It just makes you a little bit fed up in general with the country and the politics. For other travellers, including those who had voted in favour of Brexit, the slide of the pound was regarded as a temporary price worth paying. They included Stewart Harris, who was travelling to Turkey and had been closely monitoring how the pound was faring against the Turkish lira.  I felt that it was going to happen, but I m confident that things will even out,  he said.															