Doritos, Peperami and Coco Pops are the latest products to fall victim to shrinkflation as rising costs hit food producers.The size of a large bag of Doritos has been reduced by 10% to 180g but remains on sale at the same average price of ?1.99. A ?1  grab bag  is shrinking by nearly 12% to 90g.Peperami has also shrunk by 10% to 22.5g while prices have remained steady at 79p a stick, or ?1.59 for a pack of three. The price of the sausage sticks  main ingredient,  amid high demand from China, while the fall in the pound has increased the cost of importing meat.At the same time a big box of Coco Pops has been cut by 80g to 720g, but is selling for the same price of ?3.75, and a smaller box has been reduced by 40g to 510g for the same price of ?2.69.Kellogg s said the weight had dropped because it had cut the amount of sugar in its recipe. It said the number of Coco Pops in a box had actually increased by more than 10%. According to the Grocer trade journal, which first reported the weight change, the smaller box (reduced by 40g to 510g) now contains about 16,500 Coco Pops compared to about 14,500 previously, .A spokesperson for Kellogg s, the owner of Coco Pops, said:  We recently reduced sugar in Coco Pops Original by 14%, which has reduced the weight of some packs.  By removing some of the sugar in the recipe and changing the coating, each Coco Pop weighs less than the previous recipe. The company, which has also cut the amount of sugar in Bran Flakes and Frosties, said it was doing so in response to demand from customers. In the case of Bran Flakes the pack weight didn t change when the sugar was reduced, Kellogg s said. Lianne van den Bos, senior food analyst at Euromonitor International, said:  Many manufacturers will say that they are shrinking the size of their products as part of their responsibility to consumers with regards to health. But while this sounds honourable, the bottom line is the main motivation for shrinkflation. The latest round of shrinkflation   as the downsizing of favourite foods while holding the price has become known   follows , Hula Hoops and .The falling value of the pound since the Brexit vote has added to problems caused by the rising price of some commodities, such as butter and wheat.Last week crisps and bacon were named as two of the products driving a  in the last three months, according to market research firm Kantar Worldpanel.A spokesperson for Peperami said:  Peperami is manufactured in mainland Europe and has been subject to rising commodity costs and foreign exchange pressure due to significant currency fluctuations. We always endeavour to reduce the impact of such movements to ensure our brands are as affordable as possible for our loyal consumers. A spokesperson for Doritos owner PepsiCo said:  Like most businesses, we are facing factors such as fluctuating foreign exchange rates which are impacting the cost of ingredients and materials.  As a result we ve had to make a few changes to certain Doritos packs. We always strive to provide high quality, competitively priced products and will continue to review our range to ensure we offer great value to our customers.  This article was amended on 6 April 2017. An earlier version said incorrectly that it is the large box that now has 16,500 Coco Pops in it.															