eopolitical tensions, uncertainty about the future of the EU and an increasingly unpredictable US president form the fraught backdrop to this year s spring meetings of the  and World Bank this week.The prospect of rising protectionism also looms large for the IMF, a multilateral organisation set up during the second world war to foster cooperation between economies. Its co-host, the , faces similarly daunting challenges to its mission to cut poverty and inequality.As the two bodies prepare to bring together thousands of delegates in Washington, including finance ministers, central bankers and business leaders, we look at five key themes they will discuss.Donald Trump s arrival in the White House has sparked worries about a new wave of protectionism among international bodies such as the IMF.Fearing Trump and other populist politicians around the world could further dent already moribund international trade, the fund will undoubtedly use this week s meeting to issue fresh warnings around what it sees as the perils of protectionism. The IMF s managing director, Christine Lagarde, has said  to an improving global economy. The fund and other bodies are expected to reinforce that message this week, by arguing that rolling back the clock on globalisation would cost jobs and hit living standards.But talking heads in Washington will have to concede that part of Trump s electoral success was born out of discontent among many voters who felt harmed by globalisation. There was some admission of that, in the run-up to the meeting, in  from the IMF, the  and the World Trade Organisation. The three multilateral bodies said the opening up of markets had been good for growth but admitted that action was needed to help  left-behind  individuals and communities. Ensuring gains from globalisation are better shared out will probably be a key feature of talks, though it remains to be seen how good intentions will translate into action.It is not just in the UK that productivity growth has been poor since the financial crisis. This key gauge of economic efficiency, often measured by output per hour worked, has been stubbornly low in most advanced countries over the past decade. That has repercussions for growth and living standards.On the IMF s reckoning, GDP in advanced economies would be about 5% higher today if the pre-crisis trend had continued for growth in  total-factor productivity    a broad measure of what goes into production that includes things such as research spending. As Lagarde put it in a recent speech:  That would be the equivalent of adding another Japan   and more   to the global economy. The IMF head wants governments to take urgent action to turn things around by investing in education, cutting red tape and incentivising research and development. At the same time, delegates at the IMF s meetings will need to be mindful that solutions such as automation risk widening inequality if those who lose their jobs to robots are not given other opportunities.By contrast to last year s spring meetings for the World Bank and IMF, two electoral uncertainties are out the way: the UK s referendum on EU membership and the race for the White House in the US. But the political outlook is no more certain than a year ago. The vote for Brexit means the UK and EU face a tortuous two years of negotiations, and Trump has .Added to that is the French presidential election, which is looking  after an apparent surge in support for the leftwing candidate . Voting in the first round takes place on the closing day of the IMF meeting, with wild card M lenchon up against independent centrist Emmanuel Macron, far-right leader Marine Le Pen and centre-right candidate Fran?ois Fillon.German elections follow in September when . She faces . Merkel s Christian Democrats have also seen their support eroded by the far-right Alternative for Germany.After last year s electoral upsets, the central bankers and finance ministers gathering in Washington will be sharing their fears that populism could get another boost in 2017 with consequences for the global economy.The Washington meetings are being held against the backdrop of rising geopolitical tensions, just one factor driving an increase in international migration. Growing numbers of people are moving country in search of better lives, compelled by economic, political and security concerns.The IMF and World Bank have previously . Young workers arriving in countries with low unemployment rates such as Germany can fill skills gaps and help ease long-term pressures on the state from an ageing population, for example.But as anti-immigrant sentiment fuels support for populist movements in a number of countries, delegates in Washington will also be keenly aware of the risks if immigrants are not properly integrated into labour markets and if migration continues to rise rapidly.The World Bank s president believes more needs to be done in developing countries so their populations do not feel under such pressure to migrate.Before the spring meetings, World Bank president Jim Yong Kim called for an urgent development push as he highlighted how . Failure to meet the resulting aspirations of people in developing countries risked creating the conditions for war, terrorism and increased migration, he warned.The Bank is particularly worried about recent low growth in Africa, and Kim wants  to be used to turn the  into trillions in investment from the private sector.Central bank policy, in particular in the US, and the relative strength of the dollar will be hot topics at the meetings.The US Federal Reserve has  after a long stretch of record low interest rates following the financial crisis. The rate rises can be seen as a vote of confidence in the world s biggest economy. But the tightening is not without repercussions for the rest of the world.Poor countries and emerging markets have taken out big loans in recent years from western countries where interest rates have been low.  by a strengthening in the US currency.Still, there may be some respite from the currency effect if Trump ups his recent rhetoric on . The US president, who worries a strong dollar makes his country less competitive, has also renewed his claim that other countries are devaluing their currencies, but . The US Treasury has indicated it is looking to the IMF to keep a close eye on global exchange rate policies. It could push for reassurances from the Fund on this surveillance role during the meetings.Even after the US rate rises, monetary policy in advanced economies remains historically loose. As such, the talking heads in Washington will doubtless make the .															