et s be fair to President Trump: the  worst falls  in . The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which passed the 20,000 mark only in January, was approaching 21,000 before Tuesday s decline that continued into Wednesday. The previous pace couldn t have been sustained for ever. Stock markets rarely run in straight lines, especially when the US Federal Reserve has raised rates twice in three months.It s a similar story in the UK. Just as the Dow remains above 20,000, so the FTSE 100 index closed on Wednesday 300 points above the 7,000 mark, which it last passed around Christmas time. The Trump bump to share prices has merely received a dent, which was to be expected.It would be also be fair to say the mood is nervous. If the president is running into political trouble in his attempt to repeal Obamacare, will there also be delays to his promised infrastructure splurge, the factor that has driven share prices higher? It s a fair question, and the answer will be critical for stock markets in the short-term.Yet the most interesting market movement is happening not in share prices but in oil. The price of a barrel of Brent dipped below $50 on Wednesday, down 11% since the start of the month. That wasn t part of the script when  and a few non-Opec countries, including Russia, agreed a deal to curb production at the end of last year.In the event, oil stocks remain high and US production is strong, presenting Opec with a serious headache. If it wants to force the oil price higher, its production cuts may have to be deeper for longer. It s not obvious that all its members   and especially the non-members   have the political will or financial flexibility.A lower oil price this year would be excellent news, not least for Downing Street and the Bank of England. It would dampen the currency-inspired inflation in other parts of the economy. If cheaper oil is accompanied by a minor stock market wobble, that s not so bad.Pumping huge quantities of untreated sewage into the River Thames is as bad as it gets if, like Thames Water, two of your aims are to  prevent pollution  and  protect and, where possible, improve wildlife and conserve our cultural heritage . Visible sewage was seen along nine miles of the river in 2012 and 2013, killing birds and fish.The sentencing remarks in a case brought by the Environment Agency (EA) were suitably damning.  This is a shocking and disgraceful state of affairs,  . The EA said it was the biggest freshwater pollution case it had mounted and  a pattern of unprecedented pollution incidents  could have been avoided if Thames had been open and frank in its dealings with the agency.Hit the owners where it hurts, then? That was the judge s aim.  One has to get the message across to the shareholders that the environment is to be treasured and protected, and not poisoned,  he said. But if he thinks a ?20.3m penalty will impress Thames shareholders   a crew of infrastructure and sovereign wealth funds who have done splendidly over their decade of ownership   he needs to raise his sights.Thames Water Utilities, the debt-laden operating company that sits under various holding companies, . Consider that a sum of ?20m equates to a single week s investment by Thames.Thames Water s chief executive, Steve Robertson ,cited the investment figure to show the company understands  our huge responsibilities to the environment . It would be equally true to say that, in financial terms, a ?20m fine will be lost in the wash of raw sewage. Looking forward, the EU referendum has created uncertainty for the UK economic outlook and we remain cautious on the outlook for France,  says V ronique Laury, the chief executive of , which owns B&Q and Screwfix.Never mind Brexit and the French presidential elections. Think of the uncertainty caused to the poor staff and shareholders as they tried to decipher Laury s  key learnings  from her five-year plan. Here is the third learning:  We have identified the need to approach the wider transformation as a series of sequential  change releases  to ensure appropriate cross visibility and prioritisation.  What?Maybe she means Kingfisher is going to do one thing and then do another. If so, it s a plan to keep life simple. Why not say so?															