f you had told people in the City at the height of the  in 2008 that it would take almost nine years for the , few would have believed you. If you had then said that this first prosecution would relate to suspected fraud over one bank s supposed attempt to avoid nationalisation   rather than the crash itself   the bankers involved in the crisis would have laughed in disbelief: surely, they aren t going to let us get away with that?But they did: the bankers who played a central role in the worst crash of the postwar era . Even worse, the fundamentals of the system that made it possible were retained intact.It is feasible that some of the  will now go to jail for the way they raised billions from Qatar to avoid a government bailout   though the accused deny breaking any laws.Yet ultimately it is of little consequence how this case plays out. The main outcome of the crash is that the DNA of the system that nearly destroyed the world economy is still there. In 2015 Andrew Haldane, the Bank of England s financial stability chief,  not even the regulator can know what banks really own and owe because they are still allowed to hide so much off the balance sheet.It is worth recalling just how close we were to unimaginable disaster after  in September 2008. Since nobody in the sector knew what other banks  real status, pure panic broke out. The entire global financial system threatened to collapse. As the then president of the European council, Herman Van Rompuy, admitted (years later):  We came within millimetres of a total implosion    an implosion that would have meant hundreds of millions of people discovering that they had lost access to bank accounts, and that supplies to supermarkets, pharmacies and petrol stations had stopped.With a lot of luck and very expensive emergency measures, an economic cardiac arrest was averted. At the time few insiders were open about the danger the world economy was in, for fear of provoking the very panic that threatened the system. This was probably wise: but the consequence is that few outsiders are aware of the threat posed by the system in its current form. And without public awareness of the need for a genuinely different financial sector, there is precious little political capital in truly taking on the banks and their accomplices.So, the short answer as to why no top banker lost his (they are always men) fortune when their banks went bust and required bailouts or nationalisation? It s politics. There was too little political capital and almost no political will among mainstream parties to break up the banks and make them small and simple again   let alone to take on the  top  bankers and at least take away the bonuses paid out to reward profits that in 2008 proved illusory.Indeed, as soon as the shock of the Lehmans moment subsided, the banks went on the offensive again. In America the financial lobby has been able to make the    brought in after the crash to make things safer   all but unworkable. Huge campaign donations helped  financial business-friendly  politicians get elected and re-elected. Those presidents, prime ministers and finance ministers who stayed within the lines set by the financial sector were rewarded lavishly. Some got lucrative speaking engagements   Hillary Clinton s $200,000  come to mind. Others found new work after their time in politics was over, with Tony Blair taking a reported  as a fixer for JP Morgan. George Osborne, Britain s former chancellor, was the latest big name to join the industry, netting about  at the US fund manager BlackRock.Whether Theresa May ends up with a City job paying huge rewards remains to be seen. It can t hurt her chances that the Tory election  promised to    the body that has now brought charges against the Barclays bankers.															