f your weekly shopping bills seem to be going up, even though the price of a pint of?milk is holding steady, there is a good reason for that. According to industry watchdogs, British supermarkets have responded to Brexit-induced inflation and the weaker pound by  such as light bulbs, water filters and dental floss.According to the Office of National Statistics, food prices rose in annual terms . Comparison website MySupermarket.co.uk compiled data from Asda, Tesco, Sainsbury s, Waitrose, Ocado and Morrisons and found that, while milk stood still at ?1 for four pints everywhere, the cost of an exotic fish supper has increased markedly since last October. The items that are going up in?price are more likely to be luxury items such as fancy fish, decorative candles, or eclairs and doughnuts,  says Aisling Lawless of MySupermarket.com. Customers are less likely to notice those increases, because they don t buy those things very frequently. But you re going to?notice if your milk is more expensive. You might even go to another supermarket to see if their milk is cheaper, and the retailer could lose a customer. The supermarkets push up prices on non-essentials to avoid raising the prices of essential items. Competition between the chains is keeping a lid on the cost of weekly staples, says Lawless, but as Brexit really begins to bite, that could become unsustainable. Almost half the food in UK supermarkets comes from overseas.  We hope that British-produced products such as milk will stay around the same price. But consumers should pay attention to price increases on anything coming from outside the UK. That doesn t just mean rolling tobacco   which increased in price by almost 38% between October and March   or smoked kippers, up by 7.3% in the same period. It?also means common fresh fruit?and vegetables, such as bananas, which went up in price by around 12% between January and February alone. Poor growing conditions, such as those in southern Europe which resulted in a shortage of iceberg lettuce in January and February, are also a?factor.Aubergines, meanwhile, are 13.33% more expensive than they were last autumn. Au revoir, ratatouille.															