gnore . Part of the decline occurred before the lectern had even been placed in Downing Street. Part of the rest can be explained by a stronger pound, which tends to depresses the value of the many big dollar-earners in the index. The real question is why sterling, which hit a six-month high, reacted so strongly to .It was because investors calculated   counter-intuitively at first glance   that a bigger Tory majority in the Commons, if that s what follows, will mean a softer form of Brexit. This argument was best expressed by Deutsche Bank s analysts, who reckon the election is  a game-changer  for the pound and the Brexit negotiations. A bigger majority would set  free from the  unrealistic timetable  set by the eurosceptics in her party, they argue.First, the 2019 deadline for delivering a  clean  Brexit will be less pressing because there won t now be an election the following year. Second, the influence of hard Brexiters will be diluted and the government will be able to compromise over transitional agreements. Third, May can fall into step with the EU s desire to settle the divorce bill first and then negotiate the detail of Brexit.  This sequenced approach materially reduces the  crash risk  of Brexit negotiations as well as strengthening the prime minister s hand in pursuing an orderly (and very lengthy) withdrawal,  argues Deutsche.Up to a point, this line seems legitimate. If delivering a  successful  Brexit involves making a few pragmatic compromises   which is surely the lesson from the initial skirmishes with the EU negotiators   you can t blame May for seeking cover from the hard-liners in her own party. And kicking out the next election until 2022 seems a smart political move: it would allow time for a three-year transitional phase before UK voters go back to the polls, which could take the edge off any economic shock at the moment of Brexit in 2019.So, yes, it was fair for investors to take some comfort in the idea that a market-friendly  soft  Brexit is now easier to imagine. Just don t get too carried away with the idea. Investment uncertainties rarely evaporate so easily. If the election delivers a messy result   even a barely improved Tory majority   what would really have changed?The late Sir Richard George, the businessman who built Weetabix as a family company before selling it to a private equity firm in 2003, understood he was selling a product with limited international appeal.  Mothers tend to wean their children on Weetabix and people in Britain tend to grow up with an in-built liking for them,  he said.  That s not the case in other countries   it s very hard to sell them in Germany for instance. The Chinese attempt to disprove this theory has, to nobody s great surprise, ended in failure. The Weetabix that Chinese state-backed Bright Food group is selling looks very like : 75% of revenues are in the UK and the 20% that comes from North America is mainly generated from products with a US heritage. The big idea of persuading breakfast diners in Shanghai and Beijing to enjoy the delights of wheat biscuits hasn t moved the dial. Weetabix s overall revenues of ?400m-ish and top-line earnings of ?120m have gone sideways for the past half-decade.In the circumstances, Bright Food should count itself lucky that it has found a buyer willing to pay a price that allows it to exit with financial respectability. , versus the ?1.2bn that Bright Food shelled out.Post, as it happens, is also talking about  bringing much-loved brands to significantly more customers globally . But words are easy to utter. Once suspects the US acquirer perfectly understands that Weetabix is a niche product outside the UK. What it really likes, apart from the undoubted strong cash flows, is the potential for removing a claimed ?20m a year in costs. That sounds a more realistic plan.Andrew Bailey, head of the Financial Conduct Authority, refused to mention Jes Staley or Barclays when asked about whistleblowing. But his response was exactly what you d expect: it s important for regulators and society that whistleblowers are protected. Staley s  is being investigated by various authorities, including the FCA. It s hard to see how the report can be less than damning. Staley s survival as chief executive is not guaranteed.															