hat do you do when you are a Liberal party and delivering Liberal party budgets makes you as popular as poison? Deliver one that with a bit of slight rebranding could almost look like a Labor one. This budget does not quite bring home the bacon as Paul Keating once said, but . While the budget on the surface does look quite fair, we should remember the context. The budget still includes cuts to company taxes, which will in time offset the bank levy. It still includes the end of the 2% deficit levy for those earning over $180,000. , but so will most other taxpayers, and no one else is getting an income tax cut to more than offset the impact. Let s just say there is a reason this budget still does not include the traditional table breaking down the impact on households by incomes.  The budget has us returning to surplus by 2020-21. So how do we get there? After nearly a decade of saying the problem was all on the spending side, the 2017-18 budget is where the Liberal party has finally admitted that there is a revenue problem. The 2017-18 budget estimates that by 2020-21 the budget will be firmly back in surplus, and it does it mostly off the back of government revenue returning to the level it was during the surplus years of the Howard government. In the 11 years prior to the GFC, when the budget was either in surplus or balance, government revenue averaged 25.1% of GDP. In the nine years since the GFC, the highest it has been is 23.4%, and this year it was just 23.1%. To give some context 2% of GDP is around $34bn, so it s a fair gap. But that gap is about to be reduced.  The budget predicts that by 2019-20 government revenue will reach 25.1% of GDP and in the following year a very healthy 25.4%. The last time we saw revenue at that level was in 2005-06: To get there the budget anticipates revenue growing over the next 4 years by around 4.4% in real terms. That growth was not uncommon during the mining boom years, but has been reached only once in the past nine years:  And what it is the revenue that is growing? Income tax.  The budget predicts that personal income tax in 2019-20 will grow by 8.5% and then 7.5% the following year. That is a pretty big increase:  It will see personal income tax account for 51.4% of all taxation, while company tax, which is expected to grow by smaller amounts each year will account for just 18%. Back in 2007-08 at the height of the mining boom, income tax accounted for 44.7% of all tax and company tax was 20.7%.  We are in effect shifting the burden from companies to individuals.  And it also means there is no room for any further tax cuts unless Morrison wants to hit the revenue that is the biggest reason for reaching a surplus.  While there are some cuts   such as the cut of $3.7bn over 4 years to higher education and $1.9bn to those on family tax benefit   overwhelmingly this is a budget that gets to surplus by increasing revenue.  Government spending drops to 25% of GDP in 2019-20, but that is still higher than all but the two stimulus years of the Rudd/Gillard governments. Oh for the days when conservative railed against strong wages growth; now we have a conservative treasurer desperate for wages to grow fast. The overall economic picture is little changed from that expected last December in the mid-year economic and fiscal outlook. Real GDP in 2017-18 is expected to grow at 2.75%, and nominal GDP is up a touch from 3.75% to 4% and wages growth is expected to be just 2.5%:  And it is for that reason that there is little change in the predictions for the budget balance next year. In last year s Myefo, the deficit in 2017-18 was expected to be 1.6% of GDP   and that is where it remains:  The big changes occur in the  out years  of the budget   the final two years from 2019-20 onwards.Whereas in December the government was hoping the deficit 2019-20 would be around 0.5% of GDP, now it expects it to be just 0.1%. That will see the deficit shrink in that year by 0.9% of GDP  $19bn. It is a very big jump in a time when the economy is still expected to be growing by just 3% in real terms and 4.5% in nominal terms. So where is the growth in revenue coming from? Yes it is coming from the increase in the Medicare levy, but that alone is not enough to see income tax grow by 8%, for that we need wages to grow. The problem as we all know is wages are growing at record lows. But never fear, the budget predicts after growth of just 2% this year, wages will grow by 2.5% next year, then 3% the year after that, then 3.5%, then 3.75% in 2020-21: And yet at the same time employment is expected to grow by a steady 1.5% and the unemployment rate is expected to fall only to 5.25%. It is the most hopeful prediction in the budget, and if that wages boom doesn t occur, then neither will the surplus. This was the budget to put the end to the evil of debt. It doesn t quite do that, but it does at least differentiate between debt incurred to fund recurrent expenses and that for capital expenditure. The suspicion was that reclassifying debt into the good and bad pile would see a big increase in infrastructure spending that would get explained away as  good debt . That didn t happen.  The big infrastructure item of $5.3bn for the second Sydney airport is an equity investment and does not add to government spending in the budget as it is  off budget . It appears the measure was mostly included to give credit ratings agencies a reason to keep the AAA credit rating. The budget reveals that the net operating balance will be in surplus a year earlier than the traditional  underlying cash balance : But the story Morrison really wants highlighted is that from 2018-19 onward the government will not be borrowing money for recurrent spending, but only for capital investments. The new measures also show that if you take out capital spending from within the net operating balance the picture looks even more rosy   with an  adjusted net operating balance  in 2020-21 of $24.6bn:  I suspect that figure won t be given much attention   it does smack a little of combining figures just to come up with a story the government wants to tell. And the reality is debt needs to be paid off whether it is for capital spending or recurrent, and net debt is set to peak at 19.8% of GDP in 2018-19:  At $375.1bn it will hit a level $214bn greater than that inherited by the Abbott government in 2013.  But whether or not we ll talk about good or bad debt at the very least, this budget will put to bed the argument that the only way to return to surplus is by cutting spending.   a hole which, had revenue stayed at the pre-boom average, is the equivalent of around $377bn less revenue over the past nine years. 															