he City has been getting mightily excited in recent weeks at the prospect of the  next month. Sorry to disappoint, but it s not going to happen. In truth, it was never going to happen. The Old Lady has been showing a bit of leg, that s all.If there was any serious doubt about the outcome of the August meeting of the Bank s monetary policy committee, the  puts the issue to rest.Unemployment matters to the eight members of the Bank s monetary policy committee because they are looking for evidence that a reduction in the jobless rate   a tightening of the labour market in the jargon of the trade   is leading to a pick-up in wage inflation.The idea is that falling unemployment changes the balance of power in the labour market. When the jobless total is high, employers are in control because people are desperate to find work or are worried about being made redundant. When the jobless total falls, workers can be more choosy about who they work for and employers have to pay more.The Bank s model of the economy assumes that This equilibrium level of unemployment is precisely the same as the actual level of unemployment   4.5%. On the basis that a stitch in time saves nine, some members of the MPC think interest rates should go up now before wage inflation starts to spiral.For these inflation hawks, the latest labour market figures support their argument. Regular pay in the three months ending in May was 2% up on the same three months last year. That compared with annual earnings growth of 1.8% in the quarter ending April.But the case for a pre-emptive interest-rate strike will be countered by the MPC s doves. They will say that the Bank s estimate of the equilibrium level of unemployment has been steadily reduced in recent years as it has become clear that the economy can operate with much shorter dole queues without a pick-up in inflation. It is quite possible that the equilibrium level of unemployment is lower than 4.5%.What s more, even after the pick-up in regular pay, living standards are currently being squeezed hard. Prices are going up more quickly than wages and that is feeding through into weaker consumer spending. At some point, perhaps not too far away, it might lead to higher unemployment   and lower inflation   as well.At the last meeting of the MPC, five members voted to keep rates on hold. Of the three members who plumped for a rate rise, one, Kristin Forbes, has now left the committee. The question is whether there is anything in the latest labour market data to persuade the doves to drop their wait-and-see approach. There isn t.															