he country may still be reeling from the triggering of  but it s this week that Britain will truly define itself   and in the most shameful of ways. In the coming days, Theresa May s Conservative government will bring in a range of widespread benefit cuts   cuts that target disabled people, young people, and parents on low wages.The official line may be that austerity is over, but the onslaught orchestrated by George Osborne  has been simply waiting in the wings. Go through the list of cuts coming into force this week and it s a blueprint for the callous: from taking ?30 a week from people too severely disabled to work, and housing benefit from young people at risk of homelessness, to withholding child tax credits from the poorest parents, and cuts for bereaved families.In December, 51-year-old Alan   a dad of two   was told that his cancer of the tonsil had spread to his lung and chest, and that he had between one and five months to live. As Alan desperately tried to plan how his wife, Kate, and their 10-year-old daughter and 14-year-old son would get by after his death, he realised that the new bereavement policy   a cut to the    meant his family could lose ?50,000 in support over the next decade. He s now faced with the situation of knowing that if he survives beyond this Wednesday 5 April, it   in his words    changes my family s wellbeing  .This is simply barbaric, but that s the level this country has now stooped to. Independent analysis shows this week s tax and benefit changes will actually mark a transfer of support from the poor to the wealthy: while the richest will reap 80% of the rewards, . Over  because of the new ?30 weekly cut: people who are already so poor they re currently .Guardian analysis found that the cuts to tax credits coming into force this Thursday will push . The numbers are so vast they seem unreal: a quarter of a million kids deserted, just like that.As it gets set to make children poorer, the government is about to pay . The multi-million-pound contract is said to be for the  design, production and personalisation of the UK passport  after 2019.  It s a matter of identity,  as one Tory MP put it.  Having the pink European passports has been a  Apparently national humiliation comes from the wrong colour passport, rather than failing to keep children from going hungry. And the prime minister can make  about whether Britain s going to war with Spain over Gibraltar, while disabled people, bereaved parents and children have the money they need for a home, food, and clothes taken from them.Inhumane cuts to vital government support are far from new in this country   the benefit sanction regime,  fit for work  tests and food banks are proof of that. Yet this latest round of measures still makes me feel sick. Not only at the members of society who are being targeted   and the damage it will cause them   but just how little this government cares.It is a matter of national identity. And this week, Britain s is becoming that much more cruel.															