he financial crisis was a great time for startups,  says Vikas Shah, a professor of entrepreneurship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management, and adviser to the UK government.The crash of 2007-08 created economic upheaval and political ramifications, but it also necessitated innovation. Shah adds:  Many of our brightest young people, who previously would have defaulted to highly paid corporate and banking careers, were now more open to consider options outside that, simply because of a lack of jobs.  He calls recessions a  filtering mechanism  for startups, weeding out the weak and ensuring only the strong survive.It would seem that post-crash more people have made the first step to starting a business. According to Companies House , the number of new businesses in the UK has risen every year since 2008   a  608,110 were set up in 2015. The link between fast growing startups and a tough economic climate is not limited to the last recession. Shah cites companies such as Microsoft, General Electric, FedEx, Revlon, Hyatt and IBM as high profile examples of businesses that were born in, or close to, an economic crash.Indeed a number of exciting UK startups emerged in and around the 2008 crash such as Crunch Accounting (founded in 2007, in 2016 its turnover was more than ?6.6m), Pure Gym (set up in 2008, in 2015 its sales reached nearly ?100m) and MVF (founded in 2009, its revenues were ?39m in 2016). During and after the recession,  was tight. For some, such as Luke Lang and Darren Westlake, founders of equity crowdfunding platform , which went live in 2011 (although was registered in 2009), this created an opportunity.  We first began work on Crowdcube right in the middle of the crash. Many people were incredulous that we wanted to start a business that would help to finance high-risk business,  says Lang. But Crowdcube survived: the platform has raised over ?211m through 481 deals and employs 70 staff. Lang say the credit crunch made it easier.  [It] increased the challenges startups faced, making our disruptive model even more valuable, and its potential impact even greater,  says Lang.Gideon Hyde, co-founder of , also took advantage of the climate, setting up the design consultancy business with Peter Sayburn in 2009. The company rapidly recruited, bringing in 15 staff in its first two years. A recession is a great time for finding talent,  says Hyde.  We hired people at about two thirds of the market [salary] rate but we have a profit share model among the team, which appeals to people with an ambitious mindset. There were a lot of people in their mid-twenties who had worked for some good companies but, through no fault of their own, had found themselves out of work. Market Gravity works with large companies such as Barclays and Boots, helping them to launch new, technology-focused products and services. Hyde says the financial crash provided an impetus for technology uptake among corporates   Market Gravity s first client was British Gas. There was a growing understanding [due to the recession] in big companies that they needed to innovate, says Hyde.  There was a shift from using technology as a marketing tool to running your business with it.  The crash coincided with a boom in smartphones and apps. Figures from  show that in 2007 the Apple Store had just 800 apps, but by 2015 there were over 1.5m with business apps the second biggest category. Many of these were created by bright young programmers at universities. Chris Haley, head of startups and new technology research at innovation foundation and charity Nesta, says there has been a substantial increase in university startups since the financial crash. Higher Education Statistics Agency research shows that new student startups increased by 132% between and . There s been a big increase in student startups since the recession,  notes Haley.  Not all continue in the long term as entrepreneurs. But the benefit of this is that many take those skills and experiences into the workplace with them.  Mark Hammond is the founder and CEO of , a programme that specialises in very early-stage funding and coaching science-focused entrepreneurs. Previously, he worked at Imperial College, heading up the university s entrepreneurship and incubator programmes. He witnessed a big rise in student entrepreneurship. He says the lack of government or corporate funding for scientific research after the financial crash meant that, for many science graduates, a startup was the only option. During his time at Imperial, Hammond worked with a range of successful startups, including clinical task management company , aimed at those working in the medical or clinical profession (later sold to Google), and VR company  (acquired by Oculus Rift). Hammond, who worked at Imperial from 2011 to 2016, says the recession coincided with a change in attitudes.  The millennial generation wants to make a difference in the world. The economic climate meant options such as working for a bank or a corporate just weren t there. But also, many were asking  does working for a bank even matter? . Talia Baccino was studying marketing at John Moores University when the financial crash occurred. After graduating in 2008, she and her sister Kayleigh expected to start careers in marketing, but the economic situation led them to start their own company.  We both wanted to set up a business but, initially, it was our goal to get jobs and careers. But when the recession hit, that was really hard   there wasn t much available at all,  Baccino says.Instead the sisters launched Trendy Vend, an accessories vending machine business, selling items such as lip gloss and deodorant to the nightclub crowd in women s toilets. The Trendy Vend machine also featured LED screens, providing a second revenue stream through the sale of advertising. Initially, the business did well, gaining angel investment to roll out the concept nationally. However, the advertising side of the business ran into trouble as public sector marketing budgets were cut and clients such as the NHS stopped spending. Eventually, the sisters quit the business in 2014 and the company ceased trading. Recessions can create great businesses, but they can also break them.However, entrepreneurs are resilient, and now the Baccinos are back in business, with Pasta Cosa, an Italian cafe in Liverpool. Talia says her experience of building a business is being brought to bear in her new company.  It gave us some great skills and experience as well as an income for several years. Hopefully, our new business will be the one to make us millions.  															