he prospect of en masse sounds the lowest note of the austerity politics. Maintained nurseries have enjoyed a level of Ofsted success that the rest of the education sector might look upon with envy. In 2015, , compared with just 12% of the sector as a whole. So my wife and I were more than happy to move our youngest adopted child from his private nursery when he became eligible to attend. Six months later, I would say that that our experience of his new nursery has been similarly outstanding. That was clear from the very first time we attended Cheveley Park, Durham. The walls were bursting with beautiful displays, and the confidence of the staff in dealing with our child meant he adapted quickly and enjoyed being there from the outset. As a result, his progress accelerated quickly. Within a month he could recognise his printed name and made a pretty good stab at writing it too. He now comes home with enough paintings and  make and dos  to fill our recycling bin twice every week, and his newfound love of drawing has wallpapered the fridge. His language skills have mushroomed, and the nursery s structured approach to phonics is providing him with a solid base that he can build on in reception. The prospect of it closing is outrageous. One clear strength of the nursery is its attachment to the local primary school and the resulting ethos it shares with its educational partner. Our son wears the same school uniform as the older children, is taught by nursery assistants who work across both preschool and reception classes, and performed the Christmas pantomime alongside children from the two years above him. His nursery experience is integrated within the community of the school and, as a result, we know that the transition to primary school ought to be seamless. His first day in reception will be a gentle continuation of his present experiences, rather than a jarring, tear-filled departure.I m not suggesting that the key workers in his private nursery weren t good. They absolutely cared for the children who attended, but the nursery s high turnover of staff meant that a majority of workers there were very young and so had, by definition, limited experience. Conversely, the staff profile working within his state-maintained nursery hasn t changed for 10 years. The level of experience that this produces, the resources that those staff have built up over the years and the implementation of refined working practices doesn t compare at all with the private nursery he attended before. Perhaps the most important outcome of his attendance at Cheveley Park is the development of his social skills. The lack of focused activities in his previous nursery meant that he was often left to his own devices for large chunks of the day. We quite often arrived at his nursery to find him looking a little lost by the sandpit with the same dinosaur in his hand that he was playing with the previous day. By contrast, his present nursery works hard to make sure that he interacts with his peers, and he seems like an altogether more confident little boy.It is this experience that leads us to believe that organisations like Cheveley Park ought to be celebrated. Their remit ought to be extended rather than diminished. High-quality nursery education is a fundamental social leveller, and an outstanding nursery primer shouldn t be thwarted by financial restrictions. Indeed, if we are serious about correcting our lack of social mobility, a professionally determined preschool should sit at the heart of every community.															