 love physics. Brick by brick, you can build new theories from established ones and know that they will apply not just on Earth but throughout the entire universe. The upsides are incredible: I worked on the  of plasmas (the stuff stars are made of) for nuclear fusion. If nuclear fusion succeeds in its objectives, it could mean the end of our reliance on fossil fuels, the end of climate change, and energy security for at least millions of years. The experiments in fusion push the limits of nature. Every time Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory s Ignition Facility in California fires its fusion laser, the world s most energetic, material is heated from 18 degrees above absolute zero to hotter than the centre of the sun in just a few nano-seconds. The work was as exciting and intellectually rewarding as you might expect.But recently I decided to abandon the rules that govern nature for the rules that govern people and markets: economics. Why would I do such a thing? Scientists are among the most trusted groups in society. Economists meanwhile   well , as shown in polls by YouGov, for example. Worse still, economics is frequently confused with finance, banking, the short-term ups and downs of the stock market, or just a desire to make as much money as possible. Even  seemed to blame economists for the financial crisis. Respect for economics as a profession is very low, and  have been woeful compared with science communication. The first reason I thought about changing subject is that all is not well in science research. Precarious short-term contracts  even for researchers with as much as 10 years  experience. Higher Education Statistics Agency () data show that 34% of all existing jobs in higher education are temporary and a  from 2010 found that as few as 3.5% of those obtaining PhDs go on to get permanent positions at universities. Even prestigious short-term positions such as junior research fellowships look increasingly like extravagantly titled post-docs with little chance of progression. None of this encourages researchers to stay in science. And although the UK has very  for a G8 country, this isn t a UK problem: it s , too. Even if it weren t, opportunities in other countries can be difficult to take up in practice if you have a partner or family. For my colleagues and I this meant very difficult choices. Much as I loved physics, it just couldn t commit.Meanwhile, I was starting to develop feelings for economics. Rather than the rules that govern the behaviour of particles, it is concerned with the rules that govern the behaviour of people; in many ways a much more complex problem. I began to learn that, just as working as a physicist had taught me to see the world in a revelatory new way through the lens of the laws of nature, so economics could reveal a new vista: one in which the conduct of people is explained by their incentives. Economics can tell us how to make everyone better off, for instance , how to change incentive structures to get  and, less importantly but just as interestingly,  All of this means that economics can do a huge amount of good in improving people s lives. We usually point to science, technology, engineering and medicine as the drivers of what is good about the modern world, but I think economics has a role to play that is every bit as important: while the laws of the natural world are fixed, social laws are not, and economists can shape policy to best serve the interests of humanity. And while the lack of trust in economists is troubling, I see it as an exciting challenge rather than a reason to steer clear of the subject.So, on 5October 2015, I stood in front of the Bank of England on my first day of becoming a researcher in economics, ready to switch particles for people. The Bank of England was expressly created in 1694  to promote the publick Good and Benefit of our People . Working at a central bank means that the policymakers who can steer the course of the economy are just down the hallway, and are eager to put the best research into practical use for the public good. The kinds of questions occupying central banks right now are some of the big questions of the age: How does the interconnected and global economy work? How can we design economic systems to be more robust and to deliver better outcomes for everyone? How might the  affect jobs, or ?These are also truly unprecedented times for macroeconomics. While the financial crisis is over, my generation is likely to bear the scars of ,  and  for the rest of our lives. The post-crisis period has been distinctly unusual: interest rates are the lowest they have ever been in recorded history, the UK has seen the most sustained drop in real wage growth since the 1800s, and UK productivity growth over the last decade .These facts matter. A lot. As Nobel memorial prizewinner Paul Krugman quipped,  productivity isn t everything but in the long run it is almost everything . Robust economic growth may not sound as sexy as hitting things with giant lasers but higher GDP tends to mean that we can afford more research, healthcare, welfare and education, that more people are able to find gainful employment, and that firms are better able to invest and innovate.Just as I hoped economics would be good for a scientist, so I think scientists can be good for economics. While historically economics has been insular, with , and a  in research papers, change is afoot. Macroeconomics  most highly   have been calling for new perspectives since the financial crisis. Some macroeconomists naively called the period before the great financial crisis the  great moderation , a term with echoes of the complacency of scientists at the end of the 19th century who thought they had reached  the end of physics . Just as quantum mechanics brought down classical mechanics and started a revolution, the great financial crisis has led to a re-appraisal of some of the core assumptions of macroeconomics.With this reappraisal has come the willingness to adopt techniques, ideas, and even people from other subjects. In my team at the Bank of England I work with a neuroscientist, a linguist, physicists, mathematicians, econometricians, data scientists, computer scientists and, yes, even economists. Subjects such as network science, psychology, , evolutionary theory,  (a field that can trace its origins back to plasma physics) and computer science are being incorporated into the macroeconomic mainstream. Some of this interest in outside topics existed well before the crisis, but the crisis has acted like a catalyst, speeding up the adoption of new ideas. Just as inter-disciplinary approaches have borne great fruit in the natural sciences, so I believe economics will benefit from being more collaborative. There s even been progress on . An exciting twist is that there is more economic data available than ever before. Macroeconomic theories have always been impossible to test in controlled experiments but more data mean that theories can more easily be tested and refined by natural experiments: not only are there more scientists in macroeconomics, there s  too.We live in interesting times shaped as never before by the complex set of dependent trades, relationships and incentives that we call the global economy. Research in economics can help us to understand it. Moreover, being in a central bank means that important research finds its way directly to policymakers. All of which means it s a great time to be doing economics research, and a great time to be doing it in a central bank. So I m sorry, physics: I still love you and always will, but I m happy that I left you for economics.															