here are some things that money can t buy; there are others that it can but shouldn t. The boundary between these two categories isn t fixed and is in any case constantly disputed. Some things can t be bought because they seem impossible, like a return ticket to the moons of Jupiter, or a live woolly mammoth. But it s perfectly possible that technology will advance to the point where these are possibilities and then people who can afford them will want them too. The one thing that a fortune will never be large enough to buy is the possession of .Those who have money tend to believe it should have the ability to buy anything. But freedom for the rich diminishes the liberties and security of the people without money. If money can buy good health, as the inequality statistics show that it can, the poor may find they have no access to medical care at all, as the horrors of the American health care system illustrate today. So any civilised society has rules about things (among them justice) that money is not allowed to buy.There are also things that money can t measure. The Great Barrier Reef has  at A$56bn (?33bn/$43bn) by an accountancy firm and this is almost as obviously absurd as trying to work out how many Lego bricks, beef cattle, or Olympic stadiums it might be worth. All of these things have a monetary price which suggests their relative values can be compared. If you take the A$56bn figure seriously, you will decide that the Great Barrier Reef is worth rather less than Jeff Bezos, whose net worth is around $70bn, and very much less than Amazon.com, at $450bn.The report also claims that it is possible to value the experience of visiting the Barrier Reef for Australians who have not yet done so (A$27bn). This reduces the calculation to the absurdity of putting a monetary value on something that hasn t happened and very probably never will. Yet it started from an apparently reasonable position: that there ought to be some way for the state government of Queensland to rank the values of exploiting the mineral resources of the outback, where a coal mine is proposed that will contribute to global warning and so to the bleaching and destruction of the reef, and the preservation of the reef itself. Pricing it all up appears to put an objective worth on both of them. Actually it just shows that their value even to human beings is incommensurable.The particular value of the Great Barrier Reef, or of any sublime or spectacular piece of nature   a mountain range, a desert, or an untamed forest   lies in an important sense in its absolute uselessness. The spiritual refreshment that we get from it lies in the sense that it has a value unaffected by our existence. Its significance is a consequence of our insignificance. To put a monetary value on it suggests that it is useful and exploitable, but it is truly valuable only when it is neither. Putting a price on beauty is not the same as the moral wrong of slavery but it is related to it, because both cases reduce worth to utility. Even when slavery involves little or no physical suffering it is wrong because it values the slave only for their usefulness to others   which is measured in their market price   and not for their intrinsic human dignity. This is a point on which both Marxists and Christians can agree. Those capitalists who can t are killing and  as well as the Great Barrier Reef.															