here could hardly be a worse time for the economy to be starting . That thought will be uppermost in the mind of Philip Hammond when he stands up on Thursday to make the annual address by the chancellor to the City s elite at London s Mansion House. Mr Hammond has been warning of the dangers of Britain being outside both the single market and the customs union since entering 11 Downing Street last summer. Until now, his counsel has not been sought by Theresa May, and there was plenty of talk about the chancellor losing his job in a post-election reshuffle. But that was then, when the expectation was of a Conservative landslide. This is now, and Mr?Hammond is unsackable at a time when the economic skies are darkening. His position has unquestionably been strengthened by the election result. The question is what the chancellor does with his newfound power.Anything the chancellor can do to haul the UK back from the brink of a chaotic departure from the EU would certainly be welcome, but Brexit is only part of the story. Mr Hammond also needs to recognise that the economic approach of the past seven years has been a failure. None of the recent data has been good. . Inflation is rising. . Britain has a?cost-of-living crisis at the same time that it has a political crisis. The only reason it is not having a sterling crisis as well is because the financial markets are clinging to the hope that the inconclusive result of the election makes a softer Brexit more likely. Should that hope proved unfounded, the pound will drop sharply, adding to the squeeze on?living?standards.The Bank of England is no position to provide much support for an ailing economy. Official interest rates are already at 0.25% and a further dollop of money creation through the quantitative easing programme would do little other than boost asset prices. Instead, the onus is on the chancellor to use his autumn budget to set a different course for the economy. That is certainly what voters want, fatigued as they are by a decade of cuts and falling wages. It is also what a politically wounded Mrs May wants; hence the message from senior Conservatives since the election that austerity is dead. But saying austerity is dead is the easy bit. The hard part is to enact measures that would make the slogan meaningful, and that would require, for example, removing the cap on public sector pay awards, abandoning welfare cuts, doing a U-turn on the reduction in per-pupil spending in education and spending more on?the health service.Unsurprisingly, Mr Hammond has been pushing back against the idea that he should effectively filch large chunks of Labour s manifesto. He also thinks that raising taxes too dramatically would be unacceptable to the Tory party. Scrapping welfare cuts announced but yet to be implemented would cost ?9bn, while protecting the schools budget from cuts would require a further ?4bn. The Treasury could loosen the purse strings by ?20bn or more without breaking its?fiscal rules because there is a hefty margin of error built into its plans.But this headroom would quickly be used up should the economy suffer a prolonged period of sub-par growth or, even worse, another recession. Here, though, the chancellor s cautious approach is less defensible than it is on Brexit. Higher government borrowing is warranted because the outlook for two of the other components of demand    and investment   is so poor. Consumers are seeing their living standards eroded by higher inflation, while political uncertainty and a slowing economy hardly provides a fertile climate for investment. Nor is it a compelling argument, when the heavens are about to open, for the Treasury to say it is saving its money for a rainy day. This is a rainy day. A bold, different and expansionary budget is needed.															