here is nothing one can do to avoid natural disasters, or  acts of God  as they used to be called. But the prospect of  is a man-made disaster. I say prospect because it hasn t happened yet and could still be avoided, despite the fact there seem to be a lot of people around who think it  already happened.The  best face  and rationalisation process has already begun. Last week saw inspired reports that, on her trip to Saudi Arabia, Theresa May was  towards a  hard Brexit .As more evidence becomes apparent of the consequences of abandoning the single market that the heroine of the Tory right, one Margaret Thatcher, did so much to help create, the unfortunate truth must have dawned on May that no deal is the worst possible outcome.Our counterparts on the continent have known this all along. As the European council president, Donald Tusk, has pointed out, they do not need to  punish  us: by rashly accepting the result of an unbinding, consultative referendum, our leaders are inflicting on this nation enough punishment on their own. They are also running the risk of fomenting centrifugal forces in Europe that threaten to undo the good work of the post-second-world-war settlement.As Guy Verhofstadt of the European parliament said last week, the referendum was the result of  a catfight in the Conservative party that got out of hand . By calling the referendum in the first place, Cameron was offering a sop to the Cerberus of the Tory Brexiters. But in Greek mythology Cerberus was never satisfied, and demanded more.Cameron seems to be coming out in his true colours, blithely declaring on a trip to Kiev that he never much cared for certain things  European  anyway. His view is that the poison that was infecting the health of the Tory party . Personally I don t think the rampant Brexiters, whose views on Europe are chronically poisonous, will ever be satisfied. Meanwhile the poison will spread to the entire British economy.It is not good enough to derive comfort from the way reality is dawning and concessions are already in the diplomatic pipeline over the phasing of  transitional arrangements . To anyone with eyes to see and ears to hear, it is abundantly clear that many expats, both continental and British, are extremely worried about their future status and freedom to travel around Europe   as, for that matter, are many of us who are not expats.And multinational firms and banks are making strategic decisions now: they cannot afford to wait, and rely on promises and statements from the government which seem to change tone with remarkable rapidity., Ed Miliband and Hilary Benn wrote that, for those who voted Leave, the result represented  a deep sense that the country wasn t working for them, and that politics hadn t been providing good enough answers for a long time .Well, one can agree with that. The irony is that the protest vote should have taken place in the general election, which took place after five years of unjustifiable austerity   a policy and outcome which contributed hugely to that feeling that the country was  not working  for so many.But my impression is that the swing vote in the referendum was determined by comfortably off people   of whom I have met many   well into their late middle and old age, who swallowed all that misleading, indeed lying, propaganda about the evils of regulation attributed to Brussels but almost always approved, and often initiated, by British governments. The same goes for all that nonsense about regaining sovereignty, which we have never lost.Alas, the British electorate was hardly assisted by years and years of anti-EU attitudes manifested by both major political parties. When Cameron went to Brussels for a  last supper  after the referendum, it was put to him rather forcibly: what did you expect after all that hostility?All right. The positive case for the EU was never made strongly or widely enough, and it is no use crying over spilt milk. But the positive case for European cooperation and reconsideration of Brexit may be made as the rather frightening implications of the world views of Putin and Trump become more evident. When Harold Macmillan, prime minister 1957-63, made his famous remark that what he feared most was  the opposition of events, dear boy , he was also having a go at the weakness of the divided Labour opposition at the time.It is a commonplace that Jeremy Corbyn was lukewarm at best in support of the Remain campaign, and one can hardly move in this country without people complaining that  there is no opposition .So what hope is there, other than  events    which may not be welcome in themselves, but which might provoke a rethink about this colossal waste of time and resources being devoted to Brexit? (I should much rather be writing about something else, by the way, but I regard this as the biggest crisis of my journalistic career.)Well, one hope is that there might be a revolt of the young, who stand to lose far more than the comfortably off  sovereignty  brigade. It is part of the democratic process for losers in an election to start fighting back the day after the result. Nigel Farage did not accept the people had spoken in 1975, and was on the rampage for decades.If there is a sufficient movement of the young against Brexit, and if it is sufficient to sway the opinion polls, than perhaps there may be a groundswell for the nation to have a rethink. I have not given up hope, and am heartened by the number of people I meet who haven t either!															