here s nothing like the failure of a competitor to perk up other airline s share prices. Sure enough, , almost every other European airline gained altitude. EasyJet s shares were up 4.5%, Ryanair s by 3.3%, British Airways owner IAG s by 2.9%, and even little Wizz Air improved 4.6%.The reaction makes sense. Air Berlin has been loss-making for years but it is still a top 10 European airline, measured by numbers of passengers, and thus has been able to irritate rivals by merely surviving. That is why one reason why low-cost winners, such as easyJet and , grumble about irrational economics and the current state of overcapacity in the market.In a business like aviation, it is rarely safe to assume any airline s financial crisis is terminal. But Air Berlin s troubles, like those at Alitalia (now in administration), do look destined to lead a major restructuring of some form. Credit lines from the German government are only a temporary measure. The harder fact is that Etihad, a big shareholder in both Air Berlin and Alitalia, seems to have abandoned its strange strategy of throwing millions of euros at loss-making investments.Should either easyJet or Ryanair exploit a once-in-a-generation opportunity to pick up the pieces, buy Air Berlin and bag a big slice of the German market? Ryanair has spoken about wanting a 20% share there eventually and  has been expanding too.Both should tread carefully. The prize assets are slots at big German airports. If they become available on a clean basis, then fine. But restructuring a loss-making airline of the size of Air Berlin could be a messy business.Yet Ryanair has certainly got the right idea in demanding that state-aid rules are followed. The Irish carrier smells  an obvious conspiracy  to deliver Air Berlin on a debt-free basis to national flag-carrier Lufthansa. A stitch-up would indeed be outrageous. It is worth making a fuss at Brussels   just don t get mugged into overpaying as an alternative.The City s fund managers would like you to know they are not a bunch of supine lickspittles on the troubled issue of executive pay. On the contrary, says Chris Cummings, chief executive of trade body the Investment Association, 2017 s round of annual meetings shows shareholders  are flexing their muscles and holding big business to account .Really? This claim seems to rest on  dissent  being defined as a vote of 20% or more against a company s pay resolution. True, such a level can be noteworthy in a field where Soviet-style majorities are commonplace. But would you really describe a 20% vote as a muscular show of force? If you score a fifth of goals in a football match, you ve lost.The association s curious yardstick is also capable of generating flattering conclusions whatever the reading. When the number of  rebellions  falls, as at FTSE 100 companies, it means  companies have listened . But when the figure increases, as at FTSE 250 firms, we re told it doesn t mean the board has closed its ears; rather, it shows the companies are  in the investor spotlight .To be fair to the association, its work behind the scenes almost certainly contributed to six FTSE 350 companies withdrawing contentious pay proposals last year instead of risking a defeat. That is a significant figure. The association is also plainly on the side of reform. It has backed the mandatory publication of pay ratios and wants boardroom pay to be simpler.Jolly good, but before boasting about its members  toughness, the association needs to look outside the window. FTSE 100 chief executives took a collective 17% pay cut to  only  ?4.5m last year but, to most observers, the big new factor was the government s threat to introduce pay ratios, workers on pay committees and annual binding votes. Those ideas probably persuaded a few pay committees to tone things down, at least temporarily.Yes, greater fund manager pressure may have helped at the margin, but, please, don t tell us shareholder activism is winning. If it were that easy, the government wouldn t be contemplating reform after so many years of dancing around the subject.Annoyed that ? So you should be. Linking the annual increase to July s retail prices index, which consistently gives higher readings than the consumer prices index, makes no sense. The Bank of England uses CPI for inflation-targeting. CPI is used for calculating annual increases to benefits. And CPI forms one part of the triple-lock on pensions. By rights, RPI should be history.To quote the Office for National Statistics:  We know there will be a focus on the RPI this month, but the national statistician has been clear it is not a good measure and we do not recommend its use.  The ONS trots out the same line every August. It s time ministers noticed.															