herever investors looked last week, the picture was rosy. The eurozone, for so long the laggard in the global growth league, could be seen zipping along following first-quarter GDP growth that hit 0.6%.German business confidence hit a record high, and France and Italy finally joined the party with higher than expected output. In the US, official estimates upgraded growth for the first quarter to an annualised 1.4% from an initial estimate of 0.7%. Even Japan, the standard-bearer for more than 20 years of economic stagnation, is due to exceed expectations this year as exports soar.The post-crash years of political upheaval and the threat of nations going bankrupt are long gone. The upbeat global outlook prompted central bankers to allow talk of a subject that has always caused turmoil on global markets whenever it is mentioned, namely higher interest rates. Last week was no exception.When Bank of England governor Mark Carney discussed how business investment, productivity and wages would soon begin to rise,  past $1.30. Investors, interpreting Carney as a not-so-secret hawk who would gladly increase the cost of credit, bought the pound in droves, pushing up its value against the dollar.Mario Draghi, the boss of the , spoke in a similar vein. He considered the day when the ECB might begin to withdraw some of the monetary stimulus that has done so much to keep the single currency and its member states afloat.The governor of the Bank of Canada joined the frenzy of hawkish comments in an interview that had him saying low rates had  done their job .Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen, in London for a speech at the Royal Academy, pledged the US central bank to raising rates in accordance with its stated policy, despite some forecasts showing that recent growth upgrades could prove to be a false dawn.Bond dealers listened to all these comments and went into meltdown. Could it be, they asked, that the years of cheap and plentiful central bank funds were coming to an end? Within minutes a bond sell-off was in full?swing.Fortunately, a more considered position eventually held sway and the markets settled down. A closer look at Carney, Draghi and Yellen s comments showed that little had changed.Britain is still in the grip of uncertainty   political and economic   as the early skirmishes in a two-year battle over Brexit have clearly shown. Carney s almost academic discussion of when rates could rise was heavily caveated with doom about Brexit and its potential for harm. Draghi was essentially restating his existing position and Yellen was doing the same.To emphasise the point, Japan s central bank governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, said he would maintain Tokyo s loose monetary policy and low interest rates for the foreseeable future.And a look at the economic data shows there is a more mixed picture than the bald GDP numbers would have investors believe. As one leading economic consultancy said, as the stock- and bond-market gyrations eased, rising inflation and sluggish wage growth, among other things, means that UK growth is expected to deteriorate this year.  As with Draghi s comments, we think investors have misinterpreted Carney s message, and a rate hike this year is not the most likely outcome. Meanwhile a GfK survey of UK consumer confidence fell to within touching distance of its post-referendum low, as households face a squeeze on their real incomes.Essentially, Europe still has its problems, as the Italian bank bailouts last week illustrated. The Nordic countries have high household debt ratios and the French are only at base camp in the long climb to economic credibility. These are not overheating economies that need cooling with interest rate rises. They are economies bedevilled by the legacies of the last crisis, many of which still need to be dealt?with.Whatever the fate of the east coast rail franchise, Virgin Trains has at least shown some staying power. On a line that promised easy pickings, first GNER and then National Express each lasted only 18 months before announcing they couldn t make it work. The present incumbent has managed two years , demanding that the Department for Transport renegotiate with preferential terms for the Stagecoach-Virgin partnership.The east coast line was reprivatised in 2015 after more than five years in the public sector. It had returned more than ?1bn in premiums to the Treasury, with dividends on top   a figure that Stagecoach confidently asserted it would trump. It may still do so. But the bulk of the promised ?3.3bn was due towards the end of the eight-year franchise   and it is already balking.What has reprivatisation brought? Some investment in customer service: ?21m spent on train interiors and ticketing innovations. But Virgin wasted no time in making passengers pay even more: its stealth rises alone doubled the average rail fare increase across Britain in 2016.Rail franchising has teetered on the brink since the fiasco that saw Virgin and Stagecoach being left to run the other London to Scotland mainline, west coast, in 2012. Genuine competition on UK railways has been the exception ever since the network was privatised.Now there is the unedifying prospect of the government funnelling more money into the pockets of two of Britain s richest men, Brian Souter and Richard Branson, who have made a fortune in dividends since privatisation. The DfT must not perpetuate the scandal of heads-I-win-tails-you-lose franchising, where business wants the taxpayer   and fare-paying passenger   to underwrite its losses.The government should not expend energy and money trying to bail out another private firm. Rather, it should call its bluff, harness the public mood, and nationalise east coast now.Andy Haldane, chief economist of the , made an interesting observation last week.  For whatever reason,  he said,  there is far less of a social stigma attached to failings in maths than there is to reading and writing. It s socially acceptable not to have a head for figures, not to have a maths brain. Haldane was speaking in his role as trustee of charity National , and he is quite right. Indeed, it can be a badge of honour to admit that a working out a percentage is too hard. Haldane, however, demonstrated his own prowess by calculating that ?8,400 of savings at a 2.5% rate of interest would generate ?210 in the first year. That was a hypothetical example, obviously, given that data from Moneyfacts shows a third of savings accounts now earn less than the 0.25% base rate. Even so, Haldane should keep banging on about numeracy.															