Hipster culture is officially mainstream after the rising popularity of vegan diets, cycling and artisan gin were reflected in the annual shakeup of the shopping basket used to measure UK inflation.Non-dairy milks made from soya, rice and almonds have made it into to the basket for the first time, reflecting the growing trend of dairy-free diets according to the .Gin and cycling helmets also made a return to the basket after long absences, while menthol cigarettes and basic mobile phone handsets are out.The ONS updates the basket once a year to better reflect the lifestyle of the modern consumer in Britain. The once-parodied trappings of hipster subculture   from well-groomed beards to a taste for the retro   appear to have become increasingly mainstream in the last few years,  said Jonathan Athow, deputy national statistician for economic statistics at the ONS.  So perhaps it isn t a surprise to see items in the latest basket of goods and services which seem as though they could be at home in a hipster household. Children s scooters are also in, replacing swings. Fees for stopping cheques are out, while council tax has been included.The ONS said charities such as , which campaign to change public attitudes and encourage people to try vegan for the month of January, had contributed to the growing popularity of non-dairy milk, increasingly thanks to lifestyle choices rather than decisions driven by allergies. A few years ago, those avoiding cow s milk because of lactose intolerance or for ethical reasons were drinking soya, but there s been a rising demand for alternative plant milk substitutes, including rice, hemp and   most popular   almond,  the ONS said. Gin has been reintroduced after a 13-year absence. The ONS said the one-time favourite of the middle-aged suburban couple had become a staple of the younger drinker. Growth in the number of small gin producersand gin festivals have also helped to boost its popularity. The value of gin sold by manufacturers in the UK almost doubled from ?126m in 2009 to ?239m in 2015.Michael Andrews, the director of ambient buying for Waitrose, said gin sales had risen 16% over the past year.  With the UK experiencing a  ginaissance , it s no wonder gin has entered back into the basket this year. It has consistently been our fastest-growing spirit and with so many new boutique brands entering the market this shows no sign of slowing. Bicycle helmets made it back into the basket after a 12-year absence, as the success of British cyclists such as Jason and Laura Kenny in the Olympics and Chris Froome in the Tour de France fuelled enthusiasm for the sport.The number of Brits interested in taking up cycling almost doubled in the last two years from one in 10 in 2014 to one in five in 2016, according to the market-research company Mintel. While cycling is famed for its Mamils [middle-aged men in lycra], Brits most likely to aspire to cycle are those aged 16 to 24, with young women more interested in cycling than young men,  said David Walmsley, a senior leisure analyst at the firm.Paul Martin, the UK head of retail at the accountancy firm KPMG,said the changes to the inflation basket broadly reflected a growing trend of healthier living.  The ONS basket of goods offers a fascinating peek from behind the curtain at today s typical household shopping list,  he said.  As in previous years, factors including changes in consumer tastes, technological advancements and the latest fads and trends all carve out a new, modern-day consumer.  The updated basket clearly mirrors the consumer shift towards health, fitness and Free From [gluten-free], as well as the resurgence of traditional tastes and activities, albeit often with a modern twist. Basic mobile handsets were ejected from the 2017 basket, pushed out by more popular smartphones and a reflection of changing technology and fewer models being available in the shops. The  dates back 70 years and now includes about 700 goods and services. The ONS uses it to collect about 180,000 individual prices each month . It then uses weights for each item   their relative importance in calculating inflation   based on survey evidence of people s spending, and comes up with an inflation figure for the whole economy.The headline rate of  is currently 1.8%. It is expected to rise in the coming months as the impact of the sharp drop in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote feeds through into prices.Alistair McQueen, the head of savings and retirement at Aviva, said looking at the basket over the past decade was like a  trip down memory lane , with technological advances a big driver of recent changes.When the basket was first compiled in 1947, prices were collected for about 200 items including corsets, mangles and wireless licences, items which are no longer included. Many items remain the same, however, including tickets to football matches, haircuts, and several types of fruit and vegetables. Technological changes are clear. In 1947, there were just three items listed under electrical appliances - vacuum cleaners, irons and radio sets. Black and white televisions were included in 1950, and fridges in the 1960s.*Together with the flavoured cider, canned apple cider replaces bottled cider in the basket, reflecting the availability of the products in outlets*This was replaced in the basket by a combination of canned apple cider, and bottled flavoured cider**Apple cider was replaced with a broader cider item, enabling prices of apple, pear and flavoured ciders to be collected															