his live incarnation of Guardian columnist  about the surge of worldwide global protest comes from the performance-lecture tradition but opens out into something altogether more democratic. It s , both personal and deeply political.Staged and filmed at the  over three days, and due to be broadcast on BBC2 later this year, it is another welcome example of how theatre increasingly sees its role as an initiator of debate and a forum to share our lives and experiences. A theatre in which we don t just watch, but also actively participate.The show recognises that it privileges Mason s voice but offers us one too: as the protesters shouting in Tahrir Square; through our own observations about the world as we see it. The actors   Khalid Abdalla, Sirine Saba, Lara Sawalha and , playing a version of himself   are not just performers but activists and eyewitnesses. This is a piece of theatre that could run and run, changing all the time as events unfold and the world shifts on its axis. In some ways this could be seen as the story of a man who read the runes wrong. Mason watched as the  and the City of London, Egyptians came out en masse in Cairo bringing down , and the people of Spain and Athens took to the streets as their countries faced bankruptcy. He thought he was seeing a global revolution in which technology would help radicals circumvent traditional power structures.  Jacobins with smartphones  was how he characterised the people   often young, poor and angry   at the heart of these movements. Was he wrong? Certainly the election of Trump, the rising threat of fascism in Europe, the failures of liberal democracies when faced with Putin s  and , and the undermining of journalistic credibility, might suggest so. Or was he was merely premature? Was Masonwitnessing not 1917 but the failed revolution of 1905?  by the capitalist institutions and the elites who have always held power? Is making revolution so exhausting that inevitably people run out of steam? There is an extraordinary piece of film showing the faces of Greeks sitting in the street as news came through that the government had done , which would be coming for its pound of flesh. They are the faces of defeat, each one as crumbled as the Parthenon. But maybe when you realise that your grandchildren will be poorer than you were, and their grandchildren poorer still, that s when you decide to act? Maybe even sitting in the theatre is a start?															