I ll pay more NI overall   probably about ?30 to ?35 per year I think. It s said it s to level the playing field with those in employment but I already lack sick pay, holiday pay, and employer pension contributions and my work can get cancelled at any point with no compensation.It s not a huge increase if the 60p-a-week figure is accurate and I don t begrudge paying my share to improve services. But I can t help feeling it s taken the easy target while avoiding the harder, real issue of self-employment. Using self-employed staff has been on the up in the past five years, meaning employers don t have to meet the obligations listed above which saves them huge amounts of money and associated administration. They also avoid paying the share of NI associated with the employer. The business saves all round while the employee gets hit again. It s a typical, quick and dirty policy to raise some funds and as usual it comes at the expense of the easy target   the individual   while letting the businesses that exploit these conditions get away with it. The past five years have been pretty tough keeping the work coming in as people have been hanging onto budgets due to economic uncertainty so any additional expense is unwelcome however small. As I say, I m happy to pay my share but not when the bigger fish are being let off the hook.I will end up paying more in national insurance, which could push my tax bill to the point where I will have to make payments on account against the following year s tax bill (this is a bizarre convention only self-assessment taxpayers are subject to) What Hammond forgets is that the self-employed have no paid holidays or paid sick leave, and rarely access statutory sick ay. Personally my biggest concern regarding changes to NI is regarding maternity/paternity benefit.With this and Making Tax Digital on the horizon, the chancellor and the current government are making self-employment and founding small and medium-sized enterprises a less attractive and accessible option every single year. Tax policies seem to be entirely in favour of very high earners and very large corporations which have the budgets and manpower to navigate the constantly changing legislation. I believe it is unfair, I won t have any serious issue personally but we have to consider that most  self employed  workers belong to the so-called  precariat . We take all the risk and we have a very frail safety net. I have had tremendous changes in my income over the years depended on the available projects (for example: 2013, ?13,000 gross; 2014, ?42,000; 2015, ?25,000; 2016, ?46,000). It is difficult to plan ahead or save money and we take risks. I don t think that self-employment is good for society, it just temporarily postpones the problem with pensions and social care by almost getting people out of the system. So if you support that kind of work as a government, the stance should be to give us sick leave and maternity leave paid by the state and an increase in taxation, but mostly by corporation tax or a financial transaction tax. Why on earth should I be happy to pay extra tax when Google pays so little?Increasing NICs for the self employed is grossly unfair. I have not been entitled to any unemployment benefit for over 25 years, because I manage my savings to be able to ride out the peaks and troughs of self-employment. I would only be entitled to benefits in a lean period if I depleted my savings, which would not be the case for an employee who loses her job. Paying the same NICs is therefore unfair. It is also unfair to have come up with this idea off the back of more people being self-employed. Although for someone like me self-employment is part of the career I have chosen   and I have no desire to be employed   lots of the newly self-employed are on zero-hours contracts. These people, who deserve proper employment and protection from businesses who squeeze ever more profit out of workers  misery, would rather be employed. Furthermore they may well have limited savings, so are likely to be needing to claim benefits due to the limited income they are able to earn. It is perhaps because of this that Hammond has seen this as a good reason to raise NICs: because a new raft of people will be needing benefits, so he figures they should pay for them.I have had to start working part time as a self-employed contractor due to the cost of living in this area, and the lack of suitable alternative jobs. I work 40 hours per week on PAYE, and about 12 as a self-employed contractor, while this does allow me a degree of flexibility, I have legal obligations to spend a certain number of hours with my customers which I have to fit in. If I don t do this extra work, I can barely afford to survive. This tax increase is going to sap the extra income I make, possibly making it not work the aggro, then what do I do? As far as I m concerned, May has broken all her promises of an economy that works for everyone, and her Brexit car crash is only going to make it worse. Right now I m hoping for interest rate hike from the Bank of England and a housing crash so I stand a chance. It s the only way this is going to work for me.I work as a locum radiographer both for the private sector and for the NHS. Last year the NHS quite rightly audited the cost of temporary workers and made significant reductions in the hourly rate offered. In itself, this move did not affect earnings to the point where it became uneconomical but it did restrict how far we could travel due to fuel and accommodation costs eating into gross pay. In addition to last year s changes, the budget has stated that self-employed people, working for government institutions, will be taxed as permanent employees as well as having to pay both employee and employer NIC. How we can be considered permanent is beyond me as it is not uncommon for me to work at two NHS hospitals and a private site in a single week. Traveling and subsistence allowances have been disallowed adding further costs, which means it is not economically viable to continue working as a locum. Many workers are now considering permanent positions which, on the face of it, is in the government s favour. I believe the move is short-sighted because it has demoralised temporary workers to the point where they are focusing on moving away from the NHS and   in some cases   away from the profession altogether. I believe the fallout from this will be staff shortages. Institutions and companies of any reasonable size are reliant on temporary workers to cover skills shortages, holidays, illness and pregnancy leave. The cynical among us might think that the government are deliberately sabotaging the NHS for its own ends.															