It seems so obvious.  sets interest rates to hit the government s 2% inflation target. . Higher borrowing costs choke off inflationary pressure. Therefore interest rates should now be going up.In reality, it is a bit more complicated than that. The first thing the nine members of the Bank s monetary policy committee have to decide is whether the seen in the last couple of months is a temporary blip. It s quite clear it isn t. Food is going up, energy companies are raising their tariffs, retailers are passing on the higher costs of imports caused by a weaker pound.Last month s inflation figure was flattered by the timing of Easter, which led to a sharp fall in the annual cost of air fares. That one-off factor will be reversed in April. The question is not whether inflation will continue rising in 2017, but how high it will go. At least to 3% is the answer, perhaps a bit higher.The next thing for the MPC to consider is whether there is a risk of inflation becoming entrenched. That would happen if rising prices led to workers successfully negotiating higher wages to compensate them for the hit to living standards. There seems little sign that inflation will feed on itself, as it did in the 1970s.Paradoxical though it sounds, a combination of higher prices and stagnant wages is actually deflationary for the economy. That s because living standards come under downward pressure, leading to consumers tightening their belts and companies investing less. The Bank doesn t need to raise interest rates to bring down inflation. If it shows a bit of patience, inflation will come down of its own accord.That is provided there is not another downward lurch in sterling, because that would further raise the cost of imports and push the inflation rate closer to 4%. If the MPC sat tight under those circumstances, the financial markets might decide that the pound was a one-way bet and carry on selling.That would be the nightmare scenario for the Bank. Rising inflation would intensify the deflationary squeeze on living standards but make it nigh-on impossible to ignore the case for an interest-rate rise that would risk tipping the economy into outright recession.So what does the MPC do? Simple. Members of the committee make hawkish speeches in which they explain how serious they are about hitting the inflation target. A couple of them even vote for a rate rise, in the hope that the pretence of an early increase in borrowing costs supports the pound. Meanwhile, the MPC keeps its fingers crossed and hopes for the best.The impact of the financial crisis that began almost 10 years ago is well documented. Banks made reckless decisions and some of them nearly collapsed as a result. Lenders became risk-averse and stopped lending. The lack of credit stopped the economy in its tracks.The story of how RBS and HBOS teetered on the brink of disaster after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in the autumn of 2008 is by now familiar. Less well explained is the link between the credit crunch and productivity recorded since the slump. Output per worker in the UK is around 15% lower than it would have been had the pre-crisis trend continued, and nobody really knows why.Maarten de Ridder, an economist at Cambridge University, thinks he has at least part of the solution to the productivity puzzle: companies that wanted to invest in research and development struggled to obtain funds from the stricken banks, resulting in a 32% fall in R&D investment in 2008-09, the years when the economy was in recession.Innovation takes time to bear fruit so de Ridder     compared sales in the US between 2011 and 2014 for firms that relied on the most credit-constrained banks and those that fared better during the financial crisis. He found that the most severely affected firms fell 12% behind those with the least exposure, with dramatic results for the wider economy. His results are even more relevant to Britain, where the post-crisis productivity slowdown has been even more pronounced. Had cash-starved UK firms been able to find the necessary finance, the economy would now be 5% bigger.Britain s R&D is, , on a gently rising trend so it may be firms that want funds for investment are now able to get them. But de Ridder says that in the event of another financial crisis the state should itself make credit available to ensure companies can carry on investing. That sounds eminently sensible.															