 this slowdown has something to do with what he calls  premature deindustrialisation . In the past	 the simplest model of globalisation suggested that rich countries would gradually become  service economies 	 while emerging economies picked up the industrial burden. Yet recent statistics show the world as a whole is deindustrialising. Countries that one would have expected to have more industrial potential are going through the stages of automation more quickly than previously developed countries did	 and thereby failing to develop the broad industrial workforce seen as a key to shared prosperity.For both Rodrik and Wolf	 the political reaction to globalisation bore possibilities of deep uncertainty.  I really have found it very difficult to decide whether what we re living through is a blip	 or a fundamental and profound transformation of the world   at least as significant as the one that brought about the first world war and the Russian revolution	  Wolf told me. He cited his agreement with economists such as Summers that shifting away from the earlier emphasis on globalisation had now become a political priority; that to pursue still greater liberalisation was like showing  a red rag to a bull  in terms of what it might do to the already compromised political stability of the western world.Rodrik pointed to a belated emphasis	 both among political figures and economists	 on the necessity of compensating those displaced by globalisation with retraining and more robust welfare states. But pro-free-traders had a history of cutting compensation: Bill Clinton passed Nafta	 but failed to expand safety nets.  The issue is that the people are rightly not trusting the centrists who are now promising compensation	  Rodrik said.  One reason that Hillary Clinton didn t get any traction with those people is that she didn t have any credibility. Rodrik felt that economics commentary failed to register the gravity of the situation: that there were increasingly few avenues for global growth	 and that much of the damage done by globalisation   economic and political   is irreversible.  There is a sense that we re at a turning point	  he said.  There s a lot more thinking about what can be done. There s a renewed emphasis on compensation   which	 you know	 I think has come rather late.  Follow the Long Read on Twitter at 	" or sign up to the long read weekly email ."""