ity parks lie overgrown and abandoned; swimming pools and leisure centres shuttered; ; ; youth services scrapped; roads so badly potholed that hundreds of miles face closure. If the list of cutbacks is endless across the country, you can be sure of one thing. There s worse to come.Wherever you look, the local state has shrunk beyond recognition. Where it might be by 2020, when this parliament was supposed to end, is anyone s guess. But after almost seven years of severe austerity, when financing for many services has been cut by 50%, some councils have privately warned that income might not match spending and, hence, they will be unable to set a legal budget, which they have a legal duty to do.Three months ago, Rob Whiteman, the chief executive of the normally cautious  (Cipfa), warned that insolvency is looming for some.  There is a law of financial gravity here. And no matter how hard they try   after Herculean efforts over six years   a force is bearing down on them which they cannot control,  said the former chief executive of the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham council.  Some are close to the edge ... you can t defy gravity. Against the backdrop of this unprecedented assault on local government finances, in which the survival of some councils is at stake, the . They will lead to a new breed of combined authorities in six areas of England (elsewhere,  in 34 English counties and unitary councils, 32 councils in Scotland and 22 in Wales).These emerging combined authorities are a mixed bunch: Greater Manchester, the Birmingham-centred West Midlands, Liverpool city region, Tees Valley (Teesside plus Darlington) and the West of England (around Bristol) make some geographic sense; Cambridge and Peterborough arguably less so.They represent the last government s vaunted devolution agenda, with . Other devolution deals   notably a Sheffield city-region   are on offer, provided local councils endorse the concept of a metro mayor, a precondition for the government authorising extremely modest sums to get new mayor-led combined, or metro authorities up and running. The north-east, centred around Tyne and Wear, refused the mayoral offer. So no deal. In Whitehall jargon, the deals are? bespoke    in short, varying in significant details   with Greater Manchester getting responsibility for a . Interestingly, Andy Burnham, the former Labour minister and , opposed the package when shadow health minister on the logical grounds that it might both presage the end of a truly national NHS while, handily, making the new authority shoulder the blame for future (government-imposed) cutbacks. And there s the rub.This brand of devolution, while welcome, has limitations. It promises some power and responsibility   but neither much money, nor additional revenue-raising, to back it up (the West Midlands, for instance, has been promised just ).Nothing can disguise the real crisis in local government. With councils facing a    when, ominously, they are all supposed to move towards self-financing, without direct government grants   the Local Government Association has warned that even if councils abandoned road repairs, stopped maintaining parks and open spaces, closed all libraries, museums and children s centres, and stopped funding bus services, they might still not plug the hole.Recently, the  warned that the government was not on track to make councils self-sufficient, with the  financial sustainability  of English local government at risk through poor (central) planning. With councils due to retain income generated from all business rates   currently raised locally and redistributed nationally   there s little forthcoming from ministers on how the councils with low tax bases can be expected to survive.So, while metro mayors can certainly champion their areas and help coordinate services such as public transport, job creation and economic growth, in truth they are a sideshow in a wider battle: saving local government and the diminishing services it provides.															