Labour s plan to could boost educational performance but would risk damaging the economy s long-term growth prospects, the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said. of one of Jeremy Corbyn s flagship policies shows that reversing the government s planned cuts to schools  budgets would be comfortably paid for by the extra revenue raised by increasing the main rate of corporation tax to 26%.Under current Conservative plans, spending per pupil in England will be cut by 6.5% between 2015-16 and 2019-20   the first real-terms fall since the mid-1990s. The IFS said higher pension costs meant schools  budgets were likely to face an 8% reduction in total.Labour has proposed to reverse all real-terms cuts to date and then to maintain school spending per pupil in real terms at this new higher level. This would boost spending on schools by ?4.8bn as part of an education package worth ?8.4bn. Labour has previously pledged to , which the IFS has estimated will cost between ?700m and ?900m.Luke Sibieta, a research fellow at the IFS, said:  These commitments would represent a significant increase in education spending and would leave the school sector insulated from cuts made to most other areas of public service spending. If this extra cash is used well, then it could make a positive difference to educational attainment. Labour has said it would scrap government plans to cut corporation tax from 19% to 17% and instead raise the levy on profits for larger companies to 26% by 2020., but  substantially less  in the medium to long run because companies would respond to the higher tax rate by investing less in the UK.Helen Miller, the associate director of the IFS, said:  Cuts to corporation tax have been one of the largest and most expensive policy changes since 2010. They have bought the UK a more competitive tax rate and are likely to boost economic activity in the medium to long run. Seventeen per cent   the rate due to be in place in 2020 under current plans   is not a magic number and raising corporation tax can bring in substantial sums in the short run. But, as always, there are trade-offs. Were rates to be increased, the benefits of additional revenue would need to be weighed against any long-run effects on growth. We should always remember that all taxes are paid by people and that workers can feel the effect of corporation tax indirectly though lower wages. The IFS said there was a very high degree of uncertainty about the impact of higher corporation tax on growth, jobs and wages but said it could be  substantial .															