larm bells are jangling at the Bank of England. Households have been on a borrowing binge.  is being underpinned by debt, with an increased dependency on personal loans, payday loans, car finance and   in particular   credit cards.   and rightly so. Household debt as a proportion of national income peaked at 160% at the time of the financial crisis and fell only modestly thereafter. Now   having bottomed out at 140% of GDP   the ratio is on the rise again.The Bank s financial policy committee wants to know whether the increase marks a return to the bad old days when lenders put themselves in jeopardy by making it far too easy to obtain credit. A report into credit quality being conducted by the  will be the trigger for action if it finds that competition for business has led to a dilution in credit quality.It seems improbable that the PRA will come to any other conclusion. As the Bank said in its  report, consumer credit growth exceeded 10% in the year to December 2016. Lenders have slashed the cost of borrowing: the interest rate on a ?10,000 unsecured loan has fallen from 10% in 2009 to below 4% currently. There has also been a marked lengthening in interest-free periods available for those who transfer their credit card balances.Some loosening of credit conditions has been justified. Unemployment is low and the past couple of years have seen chunky increases in real disposable income. Lenders are in better financial shape than they were during the financial crisis and many households have used a prolonged period of ultra-low interest rates to improve the state of their finances.That said, the growth in credit is too strong for comfort and if lenders do not of their own accord start making debt harder to come by, the Bank should force them to do so. Why? Because all the ingredients   bar one   are now in place for a traditional UK credit boom-bust. The economy is slowing, real incomes have started to fall, the housing market has run out of steam and unemployment is projected to start rising.Britain has been here before, many times. The current cycle began halfway through the last parliament, when the government provided incentives to lend and encouraged mortgage demand on the grounds that debt-driven growth was better than no growth. Five years later, the only thing lacking is a tightening of interest-rate policy from the Bank. It would take only a modest increase in interest rates to cause serious distress.The government has been left with copious amounts of egg on its face over the built in the 1960s. Greg Clark, the business secretary, has been forced to terminate a 14-year clean-up contract nine years early, and his department will have to pay compensation of almost ?100m because because the procurement process was mishandled to the detriment of two companies that bid for the contract.Clark is clearly extremely unhappy. He admitted there would be serious financial consequences from the  defective  way in which the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority had conducted the procurement process. The Magnox decommissioning has been an expensive fiasco from the start.The NDA erred not once but twice. Firstly, it was found by the high court to have  manipulated  and  fudged  a tender process for the ?6.1bn decommissioning, which tipped the process against a consortium of two US companies: Energy Solutions and Bechtel.Secondly, the NDA vastly underestimated the amount of work needed on the reactors, resulting in such a material change to the original specification that the contract will be put out for tender again. Decommissioning is a complex process and always costly. Even so, Clark s Labour shadow, Rebecca Long-Bailey, was right when she said there had been dramatic levels of incompetence.The short-term cost of all this will be the payouts to Energy Solutions and Bechtel, but this will doubtless be just a downpayment on a much bigger bill for a new decommissioning contract beginning in 2019. This is not the first procurement scandal and it is not the last, but it should lead to a rethink of who  apart from the lawyers   is benefiting. Getting private firms to tender for public contracts is supposed to save taxpayers money, not cost them a bundle.															