 tool that measures fear may sound like something out of a horror movie, but the Vix index has nothing to do with the entertainment industry. Also known as the fear index, the Vix is a key indicator of stock market health.The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, to give it its proper name, tracks the extent to which traders are optimistic or fearful about the future performance of US stocks   and last week it fell to 9.77, its lowest level since 1993.The good news is this means traders have few fears about any imminent events affecting the performance of shares. The bad news is the last time it fell below 10   to 9.80   was in 2007, just months before the financial crisis.What has left financial experts perplexed is the eerie calm that prevails in the markets   at a time when many parts of the world are being unsettled by geopolitical events.Incendiary executive orders from US president Donald Trump, uncertainty over Brexit, and nuclear tests in North Korea have all caused widespread concern.The Vix is based on data collected by the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) and measures the expected volatility of the S&P 500 index   of America s largest publicly quoted companies   over a 30-day period. It is considered an international barometer, although there is an equivalent in Europe called Vstoxx.Volatility is calculated by analysing options contracts   which are like insurance policies taken out by share traders. For example, a trader who has bought a stock for ?100 but is worried it could fall in price might take out a put option. This is a contract granting the trader the right   but not the obligation   to sell the stock at a set price, say ?90, on or before a specific date, no matter how far the price has fallen.This brings a degree of certainty over the price a trade will bring, but requires the investor to pay a premium in return. A trader confident that a price will rise may take out the opposite sort of option   a call   betting that the market will move higher.Sometimes called the market s  fear gauge , the Vix is frequently interpreted as a measure of anxiety levels among investors, based on the levels of insurance   by way of put options and call options   they feel they need to purchase.It is computed as a blended measure of the prices of put and call options, and gives an indication of how much option-traders expect the market to move in the near future.The index has in the past ranged from lows of about eight to highs of 80 or so. Anything higher than 30 is considered high, and below 15 low. It has fallen below 10 in only three periods: now, in 2007 and in 1993.The Vix has been published on a real-time basis since 1993 as an indicator of the health of the markets. More recently it has been possible to speculate on the index itself, gambling on it rising or falling.Experts say that, rather than a reaction to bluster and to events that may never happen, it is a measure of what option-traders think might happen in the markets over the subsequent 30 days.The low figure shows traders do not seem that panicked. While there is a lot going on in the news, not a lot is actually affecting the market as yet.Hannah Randall, a spokeswoman for CBOE, says:  It s important to know that the Vix is not a gauge of the news per se. One of the roles of the market is to ascribe value to new information, and anticipate how that information may then affect asset prices. So with that in mind, it s not unreasonable that dramatic headlines don t necessarily equal a high Vix. Right now, even with news flow moving as fast as it is, the Vix suggests the market remains fairly sure of its 30-day outlook. This still does not explain the counter-intuitive view taken by traders faced with a wall of worrying news.Tim Edwards, a senior director at S&P Dow Jones Indices, explains that a lot of the big fears worrying the markets have been taken off the table. First there were very aggressive expectations for the US earnings season, but firms seem to have made decent profits,  he says. Then the markets were worried about the Dutch and French elections, amid concern that populism was going to run rife in Europe. The reasonable results were a relief all round. And the traditional summer bunfight over Greek debt looks like it is not going to happen. Edwards also says that the environment in the US has changed.  Policies like quantitative easing affected all firms by moving everyone in one direction or the other, but in the aftermath of the US election some sectors are doing well and some badly. 															