lthough it seems longer, it was just three weeks ago that Conservative MPs returned from the election with tales of lost votes from nurses and teachers   and the unfairness of artificial public sector pay caps . Today there is yet further evidence that solving the public sector staffing crisis is urgent: for every five new nurses and midwives joining the NHS, .It should have been no surprise that the government artificially holding down pay for 5.5 million workers was an election issue. Not when midwives are down over ?3,000 a year in real terms, and nurses, teachers and firefighters are all down over ?2,000.TUC polling in the days after the election showed that more than  wanted to end artificial public sector pay restrictions   even if meant paying more in tax.Public sector pay is now a touchstone for whether this humbled government is listening to the lessons of the election. Last week No 10 briefed that the pay restrictions were for the chop, before being forced into an . And over the weekend, Conservative MPs and ministers, including    who famously    came out calling for the pay cap to be lifted.It s time for the government to admit that it got it wrong   and public sector workers should be allowed to earn a modest pay rise.Critically, any pay rise must not come from already stretched public sector budgets. The majority of  trusts finished the last year in the red, and schools in England and Wales have already lost nearly ?3bn since 2015.Instead, the government should review its plans   and find new money for decent public services and the workers who run them. The  a modest pay increase would account for less than 2% of today s departmental spending.Our post-election poll  increased taxes to support a pay rise. But let me be clear: don t take it from our overseas aid budget. That s just playing shabby politics   and breaking the UK s promises to the developing world.Nor should the government cherry-pick a group of workers for a pay rise. All of our dedicated public servants need that cost-of-living bump   and have earned it.Like all modern workplaces, the public sector is a team. As firefighters, police and paramedics rush to an emergency, it s despatchers and control staff guiding them and answering the emergency calls. When police officers crack a case, it s forensic staff who provided the evidence to get them there. And when nurses save lives in A&E, it s their non-medical colleagues who made sure that the A&E is clean, hygienic and stocked with the equipment and medicine they need.No public sector worker is an island   they work together, support each other, and should all get the pay rise they ve earned.Everyone in the public sector has seen their real pay fall year on year since 2010. They have earned a real pay rise, no matter how advanced they are in their career. Limiting pay rises to those on below-average wages would leave out many nurses, midwives, social workers and police constables. And it would exclude many of our brave firefighters too. That s hardly the way to show that the prime minister has listened and learned from the lessons of the election.The sensible approach is to allow different parts of the public sector to negotiate the right wages for that sector   not a top-down directive from Westminster. That has to include genuinely independent pay review bodies, empowered by the government to raise pay.It is inconceivable that this discredited over-centralised artificial pay policy can continue. It s time to give all of our hardworking public servants the pay rise they ve earned.If we are to halt another living standards crisis, we need a new deal for workers across the whole economy   both public and private.															