Markets don t like surprises. The pound has been responsive to the May government s many self-inflicted wounds. The  was widely anticipated so was not much of a surprise and so the pound didn t move much. The pound moves down . It strengthens on the possibility that the economic Neanderthals are not going to have their way. As I have said frequently, the markets prevent Theresa May and her government from saying and doing stupid stuff. The courts now seem to be doing the same.The weakening of the pound has already had a big impact on prices in the shops. , pushed up by airfares, food prices and fuel, it was the fastest pace of price rises for two-and-a-half years. Prices paid by factories for materials and energy rose by 15.8% in December on a year ago, the biggest jump since September 2011. The rise in prices, which is going to continue, will begin to catch up with the growth rate of wages and overtake it, which means workers  real spending power will start falling again. Real wages are still 3.5% below their levels in 2008. So living standards are set to fall again. It also looks like the UK s much-vaunted job-generating machine is slowing to a halt.Economists expect higher costs for firms to continue filtering through to shop prices. The really bad news in December was that , the sharpest fall for more than four years and far worse than economists  forecasts for a 0.1% dip. Spending is expected to slow further as rising inflation eats into pay packets.There were  in the latest snapshot from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. A net balance of 24% of surveyors saw house prices increase rather than decrease in December, a slowdown from 29% in November. That was the first drop in the main measure since the aftermath of the referendum.For economists this has been the crisis that keeps on giving. For ordinary people it has been a crisis that keeps on hurting. That is why there were votes for Trump and .The basic picture of the UK economy has not changed over the past month. Even though , taking the last three months of 2016 together, the volume of high street and internet sales was still 5.6% up on a year ago. Taking 2016 as a whole, retail sales volumes grew by nearly 5%, the strongest year for over a decade. The consumer was therefore supporting growth quite strongly in the final quarter of last year.At the same time, the world economy appears to be picking up. One indicator I watch closely is the growth of global air traffic, which is very well correlated with growth across the world economy. When people are flying more for business and leisure, it is a good indicator of higher confidence and economic growth. The International Air Transport Association reports that , with healthy growth in all the three main regions of the world economy   North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. This is in tune with other positive global growth indicators such as the purchasing managers  surveys, and positive employment indicators from the US and Europe.So for now, consumer spending and strong global growth are supporting the UK economy   and we have yet to see the negative impact on investment which many forecasters are expecting in 2017. However, there are two important straws in the wind that do point to slower growth. First, , narrowing the gap between wage increases and consumer price inflation and squeezing the increase in disposable income, despite a slight pick-up in average earnings. A further rise in inflation to about 3% should be expected this year as import price increases come through the pipeline   adding to the squeeze on the real spending power of consumers.The second straw in the wind is a slowdown in jobs growth. The employment growth trend   which has been in place for four to five years now   , according to the latest labour market figures. Unemployment has not increased because the number of people available for work has also levelled out. But the signals from the labour market are consistent with slower economic growth this year driven by heightened uncertainty following the Brexit vote. In 2017 and 2018, we should expect to see economic growth of close to 1.5%, below the 2% which the UK has achieved over the seven years of recovery so far.															