n ideologically driven programme of cuts is almost certainly robbing us of life. Consistently rising life expectancy should be something we all take for granted. The UK, after all, is one of the wealthiest societies that has ever existed in human history. There are continuing dramatic improvements in medicine and technology. And yet new research by an ex-government adviser, Sir Michael Marmot,    a constant trend for a hundred years   has stalled since 2010. What happened that year, exactly? Was that not when David Cameron, George Osborne and their Lib Dem stooges began slashing public services with a false economic pretext?No, it s not that life expectancy is declining. That really would be the sign of a social calamity in a country as advanced as this. But we are still talking about the robbing of life. People s lives have been truncated, because they are not living as long as they should have done if the rate of increase had continued. And terrifyingly, this rate of increase is  pretty close to having ground to a halt , says Marmot. He is  deeply concerned  and  expected it to just keep getting better .Marmot does not make the claim that cuts are responsible. What he does say is that, in 2010, ministers made a  political decision  to cut spending; and he highlights the  miserly  recent spending on health and social care.Let us take a moment to reflect on what the Tories have done to this country. They made apocalyptic warnings of what would happen if they did not eliminate the deficit by 2015; they didn t get close, and now that target has vanished off to the distant mid-2020s. They added more debt then every Labour government. They battered disabled people with cuts and slashed support for the working poor. They presided over the longest squeeze in wages since the 19th century, and the worst peacetime record of housebuilding since the 1920s. And now we know they have presided over a fall in the rate of increase in life expectancy.And yes, the combined effects of the bankers  crash and austerity did kill in Britain. Until Lehman Brothers came toppling down, the . Then it began to climb again: hundreds of people died who   if the previous trend had continued   would still be with us today. And at the end of 2015, Britain endured the  for nearly half a century. As Liverpool University s Dr Mark Green :  It is plausible that the impacts of cutbacks in public services are beginning to materialise. Is there any clearer evidence of how utterly bankrupt our social order is? Human and social progress is grinding to a halt in Britain. Life is getting more insecure and poorer for millions   soon, it may even be getting shorter. That s why we don t just need a change in government in Britain, we need a change in how we organise our society. A peaceful, democratic revolution is long overdue in Britain, for the sake of our living standards, our health   and for the sake of our very lives.															