 will be a cautious chancellor: that much is becoming clear. Not for him the fireworks that became a familiar sight whenever George Osborne presented a budget   some of which went off in his face.Hammond will be less concerned with manufacturing tricks designed to cheer his backbench colleagues than with the fate of . In this respect, he is the Conservative party s answer to Alistair Darling   an unflappable curator of the public finances, steering the economy through choppy waters.This means that on both sides of the house, MPs are braced for one of the dullest chancellorships in their lifetimes. They only have to look at Hammond s forgettable time as foreign secretary to know that the highs and lows could be indistinguishable.When he stands up to deliver his first autumn statement, on 23?November, Hammond will report that  through the Brexit turmoil, so the need for government action was limited.All the signs are that he will announce a smattering of relatively inexpensive infrastructure projects, mostly with repackaged money, and talk about some longer-range business tax reforms. He ll be keeping his powder dry until the March 2017 budget.By then, the Treasury will be in a better position to judge the impact of imported inflation   from higher costs for petrol, mobile phones, food and cars   and how well or badly the economy is responding.Inflation is the threat to living standards that lurks inside every economic model at the moment. It is the referendum-induced strychnine sent to poison family incomes.So far, the major forecasters vary in their verdict on the extent to which the low pound will push up prices in the shops. The National Institute for Economic & Social Research (NIESR) believes it will be a quick and dirty affair, with inflation rising rapidly to 4% before dropping back by 2019 to the Bank of England s 2% target.Threadneedle Street has outlined a smoother path, limiting inflation to 3% next year, but easing it back over the next three years and keeping it above the 2% target until at least 2020.Whichever path inflation follows, it will eat into wages and cut households  disposable incomes. , which is the first drop in household spending power for four years and would take the UK back to a time when this was an unhappy country.If wage rises stick at around 2% for the rest of the parliament, the Bank of England s forecast means there will be effectively no pay increase for the average worker until 2020.Hammond will not have forgotten that it was only in 2011 that several British cities experienced . He has pledged to loosen Osborne s spending restrictions, but the suspicion must be that, just like with his tentative support for the economy, households will be forced to manage on a few crumbs.There will be some extra money to top up universal credit payments. And government departments will get some extra cash to prevent their services from falling over.However,  is going to be his main concern. This forecast, from the Resolution Foundation thinktank, represents the widening gap between the Office for Budget Responsibility s March forecast and the likely outcome, and assumes a hard Brexit, soft austerity outcome.Such a shortfall will leave the budget deficit ?23bn shy of where Osborne expected it to be in 2020. So any extra spending will push the deficit even higher, say those urging caution.Last week the boss of NIESR, Jagjit Chadha, said international investors might make a run for the exit, selling UK government securities as they go, should the chancellor appear reckless. The warning, which echoes the post-2008 crash fears that cast Britain as the next Greece, envisages a fall in demand for government bonds and a subsequent increase in the interest rate the Treasury pays on government debt, only adding to the costs of Brexit.But just as in 2008, with the world awash with cash trying to find a safe home, it is difficult to see how the government will face more than a mild jolt to its borrowing costs, especially when Hammond would simply be increasing public investment budgets that were cut so brutally during Osborne s reign.Trade minister Liam Fox and his allies want to head off a spending splurge that would cement in the public s mind the costs of leaving the EU.  There s no reason to panic,  he said last week.  If you go on a spending spree, then people will think there s a reason to panic. But Fox is wrong, as he is about most things. Consumer confidence has started to fall again after a brief recovery in August and September. Sales of private car sales, for so long the engine of the economy, have fallen in every month since April. And this, according to official statisticians, is before higher import costs have fed through to the high street.What will Mr Cautious do about that? Take some sort of bold action? Don t hold your breath.															