n the BBC s Question Time this week, a man in the audience claimed that people used food banks because they spent all their money on fags, booze and telly. The rest of the audience was scandalised. The gist of their annoyance was that the claim wasn t true.You could characterise the man as having a rightwing view, and his critics as having a leftwing view. If the banality didn t make your teeth ache, that is.Seriously? It s leftwing to insist that the recipients of charity are always deserving? Doesn t that imply that it s also leftwing to believe that if the wheels fall off people s lives because they consume too much of things that are bad for them, then they shouldn t be kept alive with handouts of food?The trouble with Question Time man s assertion, and the reaction to it, is that it focuses on whether people have personal failings or not. The nature of people s personal failings is not the central question of politics. We know, surely, that people do have failings   some more than others.The nature of systemic failure is the central question of politics. It doesn t matter why people are going to food banks; the fact that food banks exist is the problem. Frankly, I d rather we set up fag banks and booze banks. At least that way, people who like to judge and moralise could do it to their heart s content, safe in the knowledge that their targets are people whose desire for mind-altering stimulants is greater than their self-respect (though that wouldn t stop those critics from being a bit loathsome).People do like to judge and moralise. I like doing it myself, as much as I like booze, nicotine and telly. Which is a lot. Judging and moralising makes people feel productive. The rest   drinking, smoking, telly   that s consumption. The people whom Question Time man despises, whether real or imaginary, caricatures or ugly accurate portraits, are the purest of consumers, craving nothing except things that they want but do not need. They are pitiful.But they are not necessarily blameless. Sure, you could sit listening to the stories of many of the lives of such people, and find yourself understanding exactly the ghastly path that led them to that sofa, in front of that telly, fag ends nestling in the cans of white cider that litter the room. Maybe some would indeed be blameless, worthy recipients of the Ken Loach treatment.But guess what? Others would be without insight, oblivious or indifferent to the damage and neglect they have meted out to themselves and those who tried to help them   psychopathic, sociopathic, narcissistic.Human beings, despite the witless homilies of humanism, don t all start out good and kind and perfect, only to have it driven out of them by a cruel world. Cherished children sometimes grow up to be antisocial, gazing with dead-eyed contempt at the people whose love they exploit. There can be no human utopia, because there will always be humans in it.I do understand that the critics of Question Time man s sweeping and inhumane generalisations are well-intentioned. I know that people turn up at food banks because they have been referred to them by trained professionals who have studied the minutiae of their personal finances and?health records, and judged them to be in need. I know that wages often don t cover the cost of living modestly,?and even then cannot be counted on in this world of casual contracts. I know that these are the people for whom that man s assertions are simply another hammer blow they could do without.But here s the point. Even if humans could create a world in which everyone had the free will to make their own choices   instead of this one, in which we pretend there s free will and condemn people for failing to exercise it wisely   some people would still be the architects of their own misfortune or the misfortune of others. Which is not to say that the aim should not be making a freer, more fair world than this one. It s just to say that such improvements absolutely will not be achieved through binary arguments that predicate themselves on whether the poor are deserving or not.Victims are not always good. Messed-up people are not always good. Sometimes they re blissfully unaware that they re messed-up people. Do people ever think they re clever because they ve got a nice wee skunk-dealing business going but they still get food from the do-gooder suckers at the food bank? Of course. Privileged or socially excluded, some people are gits. The left just looks naive and childish when it asserts otherwise.															