ne thing sure to upset  officials is any suggestion that the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street has gone soft on the banking industry and turns a blind eye to reckless lending. It brings back disturbing memories of the 2008 credit crunch, the chaos it brought to the economy and the damage it caused the institution s reputation.Last week, the Bank of England, which has become the overarching regulator of the banking system, made a point of being tough on the banks .It slapped a demand for more than ?11bn of extra reserves on the major lenders   just in case the current economic slowdown should trigger a rise in defaults.Governor Mark Carney also warned the lending industry that it should expect tougher rules on how it sells mortgages, car loans and credit cards should the current rise in borrowing rocket any further.But one question remains: can Carney and his troops tame the British consumer s dependence on debt? The most recent figures would say the answer is no., the biggest increase since last November, and higher than the six-month average of ?1.5bn.The annual rate at which UK consumers are loading up on their already heaving debt pile remained at 10.3% in the year to May.A look at the total stock of UK consumer credit shows that it reached ?198bn in April. That might seem small compared with the total amount of outstanding mortgage debt, which is around seven times larger, at ?1.3trillion, but for banks, consumer credit accounts for a much higher proportion of losses. Since 2007, UK banks  total write-offs on UK consumer credit have been 10 times higher than on mortgages,  the BoE says.And all this rising debt comes at a time of extraordinary falls in the savings rate. The most recent GDP figures showed that households were putting aside rainy day money at the lowest rate on record.It is a situation that worries experts of all stripes   from Jane Tully, a senior director at the Money Advice Trust, the charity that runs National Debtline, to former Bank of England official Kate Barker, who was a member of the Bank s interest rate-setting committee during the last crash.Tully said:  We have already seen an 8% rise in the number of people helped by National Debtline by telephone this year, and all the signs are that demand for debt advice will continue to increase. The higher borrowing levels rise, the more households will be exposed to the risk of financial difficulty in the event of a downturn. Barker is concerned that eight years of ultra-low interest rates are fuelling a dependence on cheap borrowing, without any end in sight. She says that the growth of car finance plans appears to be a side-effect of the clampdown in other areas of credit, in particular the tighter regulation of mortgages. There is obviously an incentive to borrow, so as one area is clamped down on, the problem pops up in another,  she says.Barker also worries that regulators are examining discrete areas of credit risk rather than taking an overview of the long-term effects of almost zero interest rates on household and corporate behaviour.Issues tend to be tackled in silos   with the Bank s financial policy committee (FPC) looking at credit risk, and the monetary policy committee (MPC) examining broader economic risks, despite several officials sitting on both.At least, she says, the bank cannot be accused of groupthink. This is a reference to the MPC s recent split vote over holding the base rate at 0.25%. Three dissenters called for a rise. A fourth member, the Bank s chief economist, , subsequently added his voice, saying the Bank was storing up problems should rates remain low for another eight years.From the property industry s point of view, low rates may not be causing the kind of risky behaviour seen in 2006/7, when Northern Rock led the pack with its 125% mortgage offer, but most recognise the problem of persistently low rates persuading people on modest incomes to load up.Ray Boulger of mortgage adviser John Charcol says:  The longer you have low rates, the more people get used to them and the harder it is to change policy. So far Threadneedle Street has not given serious consideration to the long-term effects of cheap credit   probably because officials keep promising that interest rates will begin to rise soon in response to a general improvement in the economy., when he said that only a bad outcome in the Brexit talks could delay a return to normality, which would bring with it rising household incomes and higher interest rates.But he has delivered the same message for the past three years, only to backtrack later on. Wage rises have consistently failed to take off, and business investment, the spur for improvements in productivity, has flatlined.In the meantime, as the Bank notes, consumer credit growth has outstripped the rise in household incomes for several years. Car finance has seen the fastest expansion, putting it in the vanguard of concerns along with rising credit card debts.Defaults can be contained by the rise in bank reserves, says the BoE, while the big numbers are in the mortgage business. The car finance market is propped up by the finance arms of the car companies as much as it is the banks, leaving the motor industry to pick up much of the debt overhang. And anyway, said Carney last week, interest rates make up very little of the cost of a car finance package. Suffice it to say, the car industry s fate lies outside the bank s remit.One answer to the debt problem could be the current fall in consumer confidence and GDP growth. The dissenting members of the MPC could get what they re hoping for from the knock-on effects of uncertainty surrounding the Brexit talks.A fall in consumer confidence might discourage credit card purchases. There has already been a drop-off over the past two months in spending on cars and other big items in favour of the weekly food shop.Yet a slowdown in growth and consumption is likely to be used as another reason for MPC members to delay increasing rates for an even longer period. Barker fears the longer rates remain low, the greater the likelihood that the UK will see another crash. Her concerns are shared by some members of the MPC, though not a majority.As the main source of financial instability in 2008, the mortgage market has come under closer scrutiny in recent years than ever before. The Prudential Regulatory Authority, an arm of the Bank of England that overseas the financial sector, has put in place tough rules that force banks to hold huge reserves in case unemployment increases and borrowers can no longer afford their monthly payments.Meanwhile, the Financial Conduct Authority has clamped down on mortgage products that allow borrowers to treat their accounts like cash machines.This doesn t mean lenders have to act in the way they did in the early 1990s, when to put a new roof on a house meant the mortgage company paying the roofer directly, but those people with high loan-to-value mortgages who want to borrow more must show where the money is going.Still, there are concerns that a huge divide between the young and the old is making the mortgage market more vulnerable to a crash than it might appear. While the over-55s pay down their mortgages at an accelerated rate, to afford high property prices first- and second-time buyers have to commit to dramatically high levels of debt.Most lenders consider a mortgage worth less than ?200,000 to be small. Second mortgages, which are bought at sky-high rates by those who have already maxed out on their main mortgage, were one of the canaries signalling a crash in 2007/8. Levels of borrowing on second mortgages have now hit the heights last seen just before the crash.Mortgage deposits, which this month reached an average ?33,000, give the banks a cushion they lacked 10 years ago, when the 100% mortgage was commonplace. But with so many people stretching to get on the property ladder and price/income multiples in property hotspots hitting fresh highs, some City analysts are expecting at least  a correction  in prices. A lack of housing supply means a property crash is unlikely, but a rise in unemployment levels following a hard Brexit could panic buyers and leave millions of people in negative equity.Britain and the rest of Europe have become hooked on cheap finance for buying or leasing cars. Last year, car registrations in the UK hit a record high of 2.7m, while car production, which benefits from export sales and the credit boom across the continent, reached the highest level seen this?century.The consumer market is dominated by the use of personal contract purchases (PCPs). This is an American model for car purchase under which vehicle ownership stays with the leasing firm and the customer pays the deprecation cost, usually over three years, plus a small interest fee. It has made expensive 4x4s affordable for people with modest disposable incomes, and has transformed the streets of most European towns and cities.The Bank of England wants banks, which account for around half of car finance deals, to increase their reserves just in case the glut of new cars on the roads triggers a collapse in secondhand car prices. Bank officials have calculated the losses that would result from a 20% fall in the secondhand market and deemed the industry to be safe. But 20% is the standard variation in car prices going back 20 or 30 years. The sheer volume of cars now on the market could cause a bigger fall once the current crop of three-year leases has run its course.US investors have been selling car company shares for this reason. Analysts at investment bank Schroders said this week that a rise in arrears and defaults on car loans was spooking investors. At 4% a year, this is not back to 2008 levels (5%), but it is rising.Data in the UK is more opaque. There are no industry figures for arrears or defaults, and lenders cannot agree on what constitutes sub-prime. The Finance & Leasing Association, which lobbies for the car leasing firms, says sub-prime lending is below 3%   even though it is unable to provide an industry definition of the term. The banks have probably protected themselves, but a surplus of secondhand cars could leave other lenders and the car companies nursing huge losses.The Bank of England is worried about the sale of credit cards after two years in which interest-free periods have widened, allowing customers to roll up large amounts of debt. New entrants to the market have grabbed customers  attention with eye-catching deals   allowing large balance transfers and two or three years of interest-free shopping.The maximum balance transfer offer has jumped from around 16 months in 2011 to 44 months in the spring of this year, according to Bank of England calculations.Stepchange, another debt charity, says more than 8 million people borrow to pay for basic goods each month, and 3.3 million people are in persistent credit card debt.There was a slowdown in the level of credit card debt in May, after borrowing dropped to ?400m from ?600m the previous month, but that still leaves millions of people paying anything between 17% and 30% interest on some or all of their credit bills. A steep fall in household spending power this year could push default rates through the roof and dent the banks  reserves.Andrew Bailey, head of the Financial Conduct Authority, took the job last year just as the watchdog was celebrating a clampdown on payday lenders with a strict interest rate cap. The industry was widely considered to be reckless in who it lent to, and the cap had put a stop to their activities.Last week, Bailey wondered whether the long-term effect of this had been to push people on low incomes into using loan sharks, who charge five or 10 times more. He told the British Bankers  Association that the regulator was keen to avoid pushing borrowers towards more expensive forms of credit. There are sections of the public who have a justifiable need for credit but whose credit records are not necessarily straightforward,  Bailey said.  An example of this is where you have people with increasingly erratic incomes. The more mainsteam loan market is also a concern following a steep fall in interest rates. From 12% in 2013, the average rate has fallen to 7% and can those who shop around can find rates as low as the standard variable mortgage rate. A loan secured against an asset like a house should in general cost much less than a loan without any security. The last time the gap between these closed was in the years before the 2008 crash.The Bank of England said intense competition was driving down loan costs. More worringly, it added:  The fall in pricing may also reflect lenders  incorporating a relatively benign macroeconomic environment in their assessment of risk.  Lenders are supposed to prepare for the worst. Lending patterns are based on a Goldilocks outlook for the economy, so a recession will hit lenders hard.															