nleash the power of markets and the private sector will deliver returns that raise everyone s living standards: that s the market liberalism argument. However, for a decade now we have been living in a world where the opposite is true. . The financial crisis was 10 years ago but austerity looks set to continue into the middle of the next decade, as we endlessly wait for the recovery that s always round the corner.The chancellor, , berated Labour during his budget speech for wanting to  saddle our children and burden our future , but young people who entered the jobs market in 2010 will be in their mid-to-late 30s before austerity is projected to end. It s not  protecting our children s future  to keep them in low-waged, precarious work from 18 to 38. The UK government is issuing 40-year bonds at 1.87% and, in a fit of perversity, we re  protecting  our children from those interest payments by forcing them to take payday loans at 1,500%.The extremists demand more and more  flexibility , which is code for lower wages and more insecurity. Just keep beating people until they realise the real economic growth was inside them all along. But if we want a flexible, entrepreneurial economy, the last thing you want is for everyone to be desperately scrambling from low-paid job to low-paid job, weighed down with crippling debts.GK Chesterton coined a metaphor about the importance of security in his book Orthodoxy. He described a children s playground on top of a hill, surrounded by steep cliffs.  So long as there was a wall round the cliff s edge they could fling themselves into every frantic game.  But, he continued, if the wall were removed, the children would be  huddled in terror in the centre of the island .Capitalistic markets can be playgrounds where creativity can flourish. But entrepreneurial endeavour is by definition risky. The future is unpredictable. There is no such thing as a sure thing. If we put up safety nets and walls around the playground, people can take more risks. If we surround it with spiked pits of penury and illness we stifle that creativity and leave people unable to flourish properly.We worry about robots taking our jobs, but part of the issue in the last decade has been that they haven t. Far from delivering productivity increases, firms haven t invested in capital and have banked on low-waged workers. The big  disruption  technology of the past couple of years has been freelance workers picking up piecework via mobile apps. Take the phone out of the equation and so-called disrupters are no different from Victorian factories paying home workers per matchbox.State spending, although decried by market fundamentalists as a drag on the economy, is actually a boon to employers. The NHS saves British business thousands on health insurance, compared with their counterparts in the supposedly more flexible US, as well as being cheaper and having the benefit of not condemning millions of people to bankruptcy and death. Public transportation enables their employees to get to work. Every pound the state spends on infrastructure is a pound firms do not have to.If what we want is a flexible economy where capitalist creative destruction produces real innovation and productivity growth, we need to insulate workers from downsides of that destruction. Calls for increased flexibility are also admissions that unemployment isn t the fault of individual workers being lazy but of firms responding to macroeconomic conditions. It s perverse and counterproductive for cleaners and office workers to shoulder the brunt of conditions they had absolutely no hand in creating.Strengthening the welfare state and government acting as what economists call an   would reinstate the safety net, the wall around the cliff edge that acts as a lower bound on income. The truth is that vested interests don t want this because the more precarious their workforce, the greater the amount of risk they can pass on to their employees, the less they can pay and the less they have to innovate. While firms may headline their requests for spending cuts and tax breaks as demands for a  flexible and innovative economy , what their behaviour tells us they really want is a low-wage workforce and less competition. A lower bound on income would mean they actually have to bid for workers by offering decent wages, not be gifted a workforce that will take any scraps as an alternative to the humiliations of a vindictive welfare system. should also lead us to ask, why do we even have that regressive system in the first place? We shouldn t just be challenging the government to not raise NICs, but to abolish them altogether. The Tories called it a  tax on jobs  and they re not wrong   the tax burden occurs when people are employed, not when profits are made, which is backwards. Taking NICs out of the equation would give firms the financial room to raise wages, and enforcing minimum income standards would give them the incentive to pass the tax break back on to workers, rather than simply banking it offshore.If all our late capitalist system has to offer is a race to the bottom on wages and the privatisation of state services, isn t it time to ask what the point of it is? Why are we cutting living standards to the bone and  to preserve a system that delivers payday loans instead of pay rises? If the wealthy want us to believe that their desired flexible market economies deliver growth for all, they need to start delivering.															