o far, so good. That sums up the performance of the UK economy in the first three months after the referendum in June.In normal times, a quarterly growth rate of 0.6% would be wholly unexceptional for Britain and hardly worthy of comment. The economy has tended to expand by about 2.0% to 2.5% a year, so 0.6% over three months is about par for the course.These, though, were not normal times. The expectation of the , , and the was that a vote to leave the EU would result in instant economic carnage. Threadneedle Street predicted that the economy would barely grow in the third quarter. George Osborne talked about a year-long DIY recession.As it happens, the . Not only was there no recession, there was no slowdown either.By and large it was business as usual, with the economy displaying all its traditional strengths and weaknesses. Consumers carried on spending as if nothing had happened and imports were sucked in as a result, leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments. Manufacturing performed badly but financial and business services did well. In the circumstances, the small rise in business investment was both surprising and encouraging.The signs are that the final three months of 2016 will see more of the same. Retail sales have remained strong, the service sector continues to expand while industry struggles. Between 2015 and 2016 the economy will grow by about 2%.A number of conclusions can be drawn from this data. One is that the economy would probably have grown even faster had it not been for the referendum. Instead of cutting interest rates, the Bank would probably have raised them by now.A second is that there is no guarantee that the solid performance in the second half of the year will continue. Inflation is poised to rise sharply early in 2017 and that will lead to a slowdown in consumer spending.Finally, any satisfaction to be gleaned from the economy outperforming the expectations of the IMF, the Treasury et al has to be tempered by the fact that the UK is still running a quarterly balance of payments deficit of 5% of gross domestic product. That s far too high for comfort.															