 will vow to  fix the broken housing market  and arrest a decline in social housing by announcing a scheme designed to boost the number of new council homes for rent.In an attempt by the prime minister to reach out to low-paid workers, she will announce a plan to offer funds, loans and new powers to councils and housing associations to help them build a new generation of social housing for renters. She will also pledge to give the new tenants the option to buy the property after 10 to 15 years.It is a recognition that there are currently 300,000 fewer homes for social rent than 20 years ago. However, there will be questions over the extent of real funding for the project. A Conservative government led by me will not duck the big challenges we face as a nation and there are few issues that are greater than the need for good-quality, affordable housing,  May will say on Sunday.  Whether you rent or buy, everyone needs the security of a place to call home but too many ordinary working families are stuck on council waiting lists, facing unaffordable rents and struggling to save for that first deposit. Meanwhile, Labour plans to bring in a   on financial transactions if it wins the general election, in a move to raise billions more for public services.The party believes the measure will generate an extra ?4.7bn a year to pay for a huge increase in state spending, bringing an unequivocal end to the government s austerity measures.It also announced that it will undertake the biggest crackdown on tax avoidance  in the country s history  and force anyone earning more than ?1m a year to publish their tax returns.It marks the next phase of the party s decision to ask businesses to pay more towards funding the state. , the shadow chancellor, has already announced plans to increase corporation tax from the current rate of 19% to 26% by the end of the decade.It comes as a new Opinium poll for the  shows that the Tories still enjoy a commanding lead, despite seeing their advantage shrink by one point for the second week in a row. However, it also puts Jeremy Corbyn s party on a higher share of the vote than that secured by Ed Miliband in 2015.The  are on 47% of the vote, with Labour on 32%   higher than the 30.4% secured by Miliband. The Lib Dems are in third place on 8%, with Ukip on just 5% in fourth.The idea of a transaction tax has been raised elsewhere in Europe, but is likely to receive a frosty reception from business groups.Labour said it will extend the current tax of 0.5% per transaction that is applied to ordinary shares through the . It will be applied to other financial products such as derivatives and bonds, while non-financial firms will pay a lower rate of 0.2%. It said the move would eliminate  the most destabilising forms of speculative high-frequency trading .															