ounded in 1860, awnings and blinds manufacturer  has seen its fair share of internal change and economic upheaval. The company also survived a major fire, in 1933. A feat managing director Nigel Sharrock, who took on the role in 1979, brushes off.  Fires were a common occurrence in those days,  he says.Sharrock took over from his father-in-law, who bought the business from the Robertshaws in 1960. The company, which has 24 staff, has also changed location a few times. Its most recent base is a factory unit in Bolton where all products are designed and manufactured. It is still a family business, with Nigel s wife Lesley, and son, Matthew, on the board. Sharrock says its 157-year survival lies in constant innovation, new machinery, family values and business sense.  Even if you re doing really well today   don t stop there,  warns Sharrock.  Always look at new ways to innovate. You can t afford to stand still   the market and your customers  needs will change, and you need to be able adapt and evolve with them.  Making the production process more efficient is part of how his business innovates. Investing in what Sharrock says is the UK s only integrated heat welding and hot-melt fabric-gluing machine is one example. Another is staff training: in the 2008 recession, the company made sure production staff were trained in all processes, rather than specialising in one as they had previously. More recently, the business has set up an apprenticeship scheme.Sharrock says it is important to attract and train new recruits as the company has an ageing workforce.  Without introducing such a scheme we would soon struggle to have the right people in place to maintain our business growth. David Smith, professor of innovation management at Nottingham Business School, says pinpointing what enables business longevity is difficult, but some factors do crop up regularly. A common plus is private ownership.  Quite often, businesses survive because they are family businesses. The family retains control and they don t sell out,  says Smith. They may also take a long-term approach to staff management. By retaining staff, Smith points out, businesses can more easily hold on to knowledge and skills and transfer them from generation to generation, which aids survival. However, he adds, a long-serving management and staff does not ensure endurance.  There are cases when a new technology comes along and wipes out an industry in a very short space of time.  Some broad examples include personal computers overtaking typewriters, digital cameras pushing out celluloid cameras and talkies usurping silent films.Some industries are less vulnerable to developments in technology but still have to adapt to wider uncertainties, such as recession. Take : Jacqueline O Donovan is now managing director of the company, which was founded by her father in 1959. She and her siblings Michael, Caroline and Anthony took over the company after their dad died suddenly in the mid-1980s.  We ve all got senior roles and, over the years, we ve found our areas. The fact that there are four of us and we are spread across the business ensures we are a well-oiled wheel,  says O Donovan.The business generated revenues of ?19.2m in 2016, and employs 160 people. O Donovan, who was just 19 when she became head of the business, faced her first recession in the late 1980s and says it was a family effort to sustain the business.  Our level of service and attention to detail carried us through.  While the business didn t make redundancies during this time, if someone left they were not replaced immediately. Instead their workload was shared out among the remaining staff. O Donovan believes being a woman in a male-dominated industry has helped her to see things differently. Take the business s uniform policy   all staff must wear its red and white uniforms (which match its vehicles) when delivering skips to householders.  I say to my drivers:  how do you think your wife would feel if she didn t know that man at the door?  That s why we put uniforms on them, so they look smart and the brand is identifiable,  she says.Staff training is also a focus. O Donovan learned how to be a trainer so she could oversee it personally.  I ve got a real passion for upskilling staff. We ve got people who ve been here 10 to 15 years, because we have invested in them. It s important to keep the family feel to the business.  O Donovan personally wishes each of her 160 employees happy birthday, for example.  I think those little touches are important.  Most of us will use a waste service at some point, this quality of being useful to all can lend a business longevity. Another type of business suited to survival, says Smith, are those that find niches and serve small, but profitable markets. These are often premium products, where customers savour the quality of the item and are happy to pay more. , founded in Glasgow in 1973 by Ivor Tiefenbrun, which manufactures music systems   amps, turntables and network music players   is one such enterprise. Unlike most manufacturers, it creates its products by hand and each bear the name of the person who assembled them.  Craftsmanship may seem irrelevant in a high-tech, mass-production world, but for Linn it is the bedrock of all the company s products,  says Gilad Tiefenbrun, the current managing director and founder s son. The business, which has a turnover of ?18m, exports across Europe, to the US and Japan. However, it has experienced hard times. The financial crash of 2007-08 led the company to cut its headcount from 300 to 150, for example. But it is now investing heavily in research and development, spending in excess of ?2m last year.  Unless we continue to innovate, and come up with groundbreaking products, we don t have a future,  says Tiefenbrun.Ever since his father founded the business, the company has aimed to be a leader in sound quality, says Tiefenbrun.  We don t make anything unless it s better than what s available elsewhere. For us, good enough isn t good enough.  Aside from innovating, Tiefenbrun says a solid company culture is vital to survival.  Your company s values should be timeless, so that there remains the ability to adapt and grow within your industry, while still staying true to customer needs. Enterprises that survive a long time have often developed an approach to business that defines how they operate, says Smith. In tough times, he says, most businesses choose between tight control and rationalisation (minimising costs) or innovation (new products and new markets), with the latter carrying a higher level of risk. The ones that do survive often have core values that are well established,  Smith adds.  They don t opt for sudden, short-term gains, and tend to take a long-term view of things. 															