Philip Hammond would need to spend an extra ?33bn a year to  end austerity  according to a leading tax and spending watchdog.The  (IFS) said the chancellor could use his autumn budget to reverse major cuts scheduled to hit public spending and still keep the government s spending deficit at 2.4% of GDP by 2021.To meet a target of balancing the budget in the middle of the next decade, the IFS warned that the Treasury would need to return to its spending squeeze if the economy, as expected, only grows modestly in the aftermath of leaving the European Union, limiting the growth of tax receipts. The analysis has been released as ministers prepare to battle with the chancellor to protect their departments before the autumn budget.The chancellor has warned that government finances remain vulnerable in the event of another financial shock and the Treasury s task must remain to bring down the deficit over the next parliament.Carl Emmerson, deputy director of the IFS, said:  An  end to austerity    as defined by no further net tax rises, benefit cuts or cuts to spending on public services   would require a very sharp change of direction.  It would imply a ?17bn boost to planned spending on public services alongside a ?5bn net tax cut and an ?11bn increase in planned benefit spending   ie a giveaway of ?33bn a year. [That] would, on current forecasts, leave us with a deficit at its current level   2.4% of GDP   in 2021-22. Emmerson said relaxing the spending squeeze was  an option in a way that it was not an option back in 2010 . But he warned that it would leave the chancellor with  less room for manoeuvre  if growth stalled as a result of Brexit.Revisions to figures for the public deficit, which soared to 9.9% of national income in 2009-10 after the financial crisis, have shown it fell to 2.4% last year and is the lowest it has been since 2003-04. Labour has argued that a deficit of 2.4% is low enough to continue to bring down the overall debt-to-GDP ratio.Emmerson, who unveiled his analysis at the Institute for Government in London, appeared to agree when he said:  We could choose to continue to run deficits of around the current level over the longer term. If the economy were to grow as expected, this would be sufficient to see debt fall as a share of national income over the longer term. It would mean that over the next few years household incomes could be better supported and a greater quality and quantity of public services could be enjoyed. But it would also involve planning to live with elevated public sector debt for longer. It could give the chancellor less room for manoeuvre if the economy were to suffer badly, for Brexit-related or other reasons, over the next few years. And it would almost certainly require the abandonment of the pledge to eliminate the deficit in the mid-2020s. 															