rexit, according to its cheerleaders, offers British businesses the chance to expand trade beyond Europe to the rest of the world. Trade minister Liam Fox infamously said the easy option of shipping goods across the Channel had deterred businesses large and small from looking further afield. They had become , and now they would be forced to be more entrepreneurial.Setting aside the reasons why countries all over the world mostly export to their neighbours (it s cheaper, and there are shared histories and cultures) and try to do so within free-trade blocs (profits are higher when tariffs are low and regulations are harmonised). let s consider the question of how fat and lazy business has become. Is it ready to accept Fox s challenge?One way of making an assessment is to examine the health of exporting hubs around the UK, and the readiness of employers and their workers for the task ahead.In just over a month, local elections in Britain will include votes for six directly elected mayors of combined local authorities, a new layer of local government. This has prompted the Office for National Statistics to pull together figures covering the new areas, from the Liverpool City Region and Greater Manchester combined authorities in the north to the west of England, and the odd couple of the Cambridge and Peterborough combined authority in the east.There will be six new authorities. Leeds, Newcastle and Sheffield failed to make the cut. , which from 4 May will have a ?1.1bn budget to spend on improving local transport and skills.As an economy, the West Midlands should be revving its engines quietly in readiness for Brexit. But the  that few would expect, especially when it lays claim to have the UK s second city at its heart, with hi-tech manufacturing to rival the German Ruhr.One basic measure of economic readiness is the percentage of people in employment. The national average is 73.9%. Of all the combined authorities, the West Midlands has the lowest at 65.1%. It also comes at the bottom of the pile on the ONS measure of labour productivity, with output per hour lower than in Manchester, Liverpool and the rest.One explanation for the low productivity figures might be found in the education sector, where the West Midlands achieves another low. According to the ONS, it has more than three times the average share of population with no qualifications, and a relatively low proportion of residents with a degree-level qualification.The West Midlands, a centre for traditional engineering and manufacturing industries, also has the worst female employment rate of the six authorities. Whatever the reasons, the lack of female participation in the workforce has a significant knock-on effect on average household disposable incomes, which are also the lowest of the six combined authorities.The conclusion must be that none of these tests finds Britain s industrial heartland in good shape and ready for the brave new world of .Champions of the region argue there are large pockets filled with hi-tech manufacturing, and that companies in the services sector can claim to be among the best in the country. Jaguar Land Rover and the aerospace firm Moog boast stellar productivity rates, while areas such as Sutton Coldfield are solidly wealthy and stuffed with highly paid graduates.It s certainly true that the average figures for the region are dragged down by the districts of Sandwell and neighbouring Dudley, which have struggled for years with little private investment or government support. Wolverhampton up the road now has a respected university, but this investment in higher education has so far done little to affect youth unemployment in that city.Another factor depressing the region s figures can probably be found in the number of skilled workers with productive jobs who would boost the ONS figures if only they lived inside the authority s boundaries, rather than in leafy Warwickshire and Shropshire villages.But that says much about the failures of policymakers. It says that , as the region s driving force, wasted the Millennium money thrown at it by Gordon Brown in the 10 years before the financial crash in a way that Leeds, Newcastle, Manchester and Liverpool didn t. Sadly, Birmingham s leaders were unable to construct a living city with a public transport system that knitted the region together.And it shows that the mayor will need more money than is currently on offer, especially when another 10?years of austerity was the main course on  menu. Council chiefs spend most of their time firefighting to protect the most vulnerable citizens, not debating how to copy London s cycleways. The combined authority s ?1.1bn budget is spread over 30 years. That will leave local businesses to play a bigger role   investing not just in their own plant and machinery, but also in the local infrastructure.Do they have the means at a time of extra costs from the apprenticeship levy, higher business rates and the uncertainty that comes with Brexit? It s a tall order.															