Rising prices on the back of the Brexit vote and the trend towards more insecure work will rob British workers of any growth in real wages this year, with repercussions for the wider economy, a new report has warned.With just over a week to go until a snap general election largely focused on looming Brexit negotiations, economists at the ratings agency Standard & Poor s are the latest to highlight .The referendum result did not deliver the drastic hit to economic growth that some had predicted but it did send the pound sharply lower. That has made imports to the UK more expensive, helping to push inflation up to its .On the latest official figures, inflation had overtaken meagre wage growth, leaving workers worse off in real terms. S&P expects that trend to continue this year and it says the next government will have to boost spending on infrastructure to improve the UK s sluggish productivity and turn the tide on household incomes.Boris Glass, one of the report s authors, said that after the UK s GDP growth , from 0.7% at the end of last year, the pattern was likely to continue as stresses on household finances weighed on consumer spending. The resulting weakening of household purchasing power will likely translate into weaker consumer spending, which is a key factor behind the slow GDP growth we anticipate for the rest of this year, after the economy expanded by only 0.2% in the first quarter,  he said.He said real wage growth should turn positive again next year, partly because employers will have adjusted pay for higher inflation by then.  But several factors are likely to keep constraining pay growth in our view,  he added.The recent return to falling real wages compounds the pain for British workers who suffered years of declining living standards in the wake of the financial crisis. Glass described the result as  more than a decade of lost earnings growth in absolute levels .While the biggest factor behind the latest rise in inflation was the Brexit vote, there were other reasons for weak wage growth, the S&P report said.One explanation was the UK s poor record on productivity, a measure of economic efficiency or what is produced for every hour worked. The  and what little improvement there has been has not been fully passed on to workers in higher wages, S&P said.  Real wages have so far failed to catch up even with very weak productivity  What s more, with productivity growth remaining so sluggish, there is not much for real wages to catch up to. Real pay growth will likely remain muted until productivity numbers rebound,  said Glass. At least some of the productivity loss could be reversed by boosting investment spending, including on infrastructure. Unfortunately, this is unlikely to occur to the extent necessary in the near to medium term.  He also warned that the overdue catch-up of real wages with productivity could be further delayed as a result of more muted growth prospects due to Brexit.But poor productivity growth was only part of the problem, Glass added. Real wages were currently still well below the norm, even at such low productivity levels.Another key factor in weak wage growth was the quality of employment, the S&P report said, noting official figures showing that in the fourth quarter of last year, . These types of jobs, often in consumer-facing services where relatively low skill levels are required, made up almost one-quarter of all employment created since 2010 when the recovery started, and this seems to be part of a broader trend,  it added. Jobs created since the global financial crisis have tended to be in occupations with relatively low productivity and less secure, including low paid self-employment and part-time employment. 															