rom the outset, the motto of Emmanuel Macron was  rassemblement  (coming together): he aimed to unite a divided nation. Political divisions, he claimed, : the left/right divide was perpetuated by parties whose sole objective was to beat their rivals to power. Beneath theatrical politics, there must be a population with common, liberal aspirations, who felt constrained by regulation and especially labour laws, crushed by taxation, burdened by the state. By creating a new, grassroots movement, Macron would gather the energies dormant in civil society, transcend political divides and effect no less than a  revolution  ().No doubt, many in the professional classes and the media enthusiastically embraced the great liberal dream of a passionately moderate society. Ever since the bourgeoisie rose to prominence at the end of the 18th century, it has aspired to being perceived as the bearer of universal values. Once again, this aspiration has been thwarted.Even against the much-vilified , Macron took the presidency with the weakest mandate ever for a Fifth Republic president, and will preside over a society more divided than ever.Twenty million people voted for Macron; 10 million for Le Pen (4 million more than in the first round); and a staggering . That less than half of the electorate felt compelled to form a  republican front  against the Front National tells us how profoundly antagonistic they are to the new man in charge. Yet Macron promised, , that his policies would reduce the tensions that his campaign failed to defuse. I believe he is sincere.Macron is a complex political figure. At meetings, he resorts to every populist trick, emphasising his persona and biography, resorting to slogans and light shows. Yet last Friday, he gave a  to Mediapart in which he was articulate, precise and refreshingly candid. He also sketched a philosophy of history that explains why he behaves so differently in different contexts. According to Macron, liberal democracies have emerged out of the progressive enrichment of the bourgeoisie who, unfortunately, have lost sight of their responsibilities. He therefore inscribes his defence of economic liberty within the context of a broader  cultural revolution  (his words) which would regenerate the middle class and enable it to fulfil its historical role as the pre-eminent class with responsibilities towards the others. In this view of history, there is no place for social struggles or trade unions, and no role for the working class. It therefore makes sense that when addressing them via televised meetings, Macron resorts to infantilising advertising tricks, but when addressing the middle class on Mediapart, he is at his convincing best, eager to explain how entrepreneurs and professionals should exploit the opportunities he will open for them to create chances for others.Unfortunately, I do not think they will.As my  makes clear, I am a supporter of . Yet I was an academic before becoming an activist and I appreciate candid, articulate people, so I am willing to give credit where credit is due: Macron does intend to tinker with the workings of the market to make its impact on the most vulnerable less brutal. Yet his policies will not bear the fruits he himself expects. Macron s faith in the bourgeoisie fails to take into account the systemic pressures it is itself under: under an unbridled capitalist regime, profit-making is not fuelled only by greed, but also by economic necessity. Even with the best will in the world, the bourgeoisie cannot channel capital towards such urgent, but unprofitable, issues as the environmental crisis. They cannot afford to raise wages or reconstruct devastated civil services in the context of globalised competition. They will have to take advantage of deregulation to further cut wages and increase working hours. And they will not be able to muster the charisma to convince the masses to sacrifice their own wellbeing on the altar of competitiveness.The tragedy of Macron is that he is a highly articulate upholder of an illusion that has been dispelled time and time again since the subprime crisis. That the defence of an economic system that has exerted such centrifugal pressure on society as to nearly dissolve it can still pass as  pragmatic  is truly staggering, and shows that what goes by the name  pragmatism  has become the most deeply entrenched of ideologies.The only pragmatic approach to the woes of  (and beyond) is to boldly reinvent the common good by completely changing the terms of the problem: first, the environment. Second, the jobs needed to tackle the environmental crisis. Third, the economic system that would enable the funding of these jobs (spoiler alert: it is not neoliberalism).Fourth, the construction of international relations compatible with this economic system (second spoiler alert: the EU as it stands is not such a construct). Only by reasoning thus   in the correct order of priorities   can one instil the kind of hope that motivates people to rise beyond divisions. This hope is what caused the surprise of the French presidential election: the rise of . While Macron s appeal was to put fresh faces in charge of well-known policies, that of M lenchon lay in a programme that dared to offer radical solutions to 21st-century issues: climate change, inequality, and the strengthening of democracy against special interests.Interestingly, while Macron gathered most of his votes from the wealthier sections of society and Le Pen from the poorest, votes for M lenchon were equally spread between all socio-economic groups (and he was the favoured candidate of the youth). Can France Insoumise continue its rise now the election is over? The stakes are high   enough for an academic who became an activist to fully enter the fray: I will be France Insoumise s candidate to the legislative elections for the constituency of French people resident overseas.															