s president of the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services (Adass), Margaret Willcox finds herself in an unusual position. In the mounting friction between , she s a leading figure on one side of the fence who also spent half her career on the other side   starting out as a nurse.Willcox, 60, is in no doubt where her loyalties now lie.  I love working in social care because you can make a real difference to people s lives,  she says.  Even at a senior level, while you are not a practitioner, decisions you make about managing staff and influencing systems still play back to those individuals in a very direct and meaningful way.  The past fortnight, she reflects, has been a salutary reminder of the huge influence that the hospitals lobby still wields.  Even when I worked in the  I didn t realise   really until quite late on   just how powerful it is. Matters have come to a head over the delayed discharge of older people from hospital, with  Social care received an emergency cash infusion of , in part to address delayed discharges, but the  that only one in four trusts had received a commitment from its local councils to a share of the money.This comes against a background of massive cuts to council social care budgets since 2010. , taking the . Things were already frosty, therefore, when health secretary   (BCF)   a pot of money spanning the NHS and councils that aims to integrate health and social care. He prioritised addressing delayed discharge over the rest of social care, insisting that 2,000-3,000 hospital beds must be freed up. He also announced reviews of 12 areas with the worst problems and warned they could lose funding in 2018-19 if they did not improve.The  and said it could no longer support the BCF guidance. Izzi Seccombe, who leads for the association on social care and is Conservative leader of Warwickshire council, told the local government press that the NHS wanted control of the ?2bn and was  a dinosaur and it hasn t changed . Willcox may be no less angry in private, but chooses her public comments with care. She describes developments as  unfortunate  and relations with the NHS as  under tension , but insists that Adass will not walk away from the integration table.  We won t let it get in the way, we will rise above it,  she says.  But we need to watch how things develop over the next few days because it is going to be difficult if people have come to a local arrangement about what that money was going to buy. This may now enable some parts of the system to rethink what they want. The new guidance imposes across-the-board targets for reducing delayed discharge without any recognition of local factors, she argues, while the idea of taking money off areas with the worst problems  makes no sense . She thinks the  trying to come together: the former based on entitlement to a service, the latter based?on eligibility; the former directed?centrally, the latter accountable locally.  The NHS cannot fail to respond?to a command-and-control model that is being given to them, but we are local government. And the clue is in the title, isn t it? Willcox s day job is director of adult?social care at Gloucestershire county council. She says she was unsurprised by last week s , revealing that more than a fifth of all adult social care services in England have been rated below the  good  benchmark, including almost one in three nursing homes.The sector is in a fragile condition, she agrees, having had recent direct experience. In March, a company that was Gloucestershire s main provider of homecare went into liquidation overnight, leaving the council to take over services as best it could for three weeks until others could step in. The 250 care workers affected had to be given cash help and food parcels, and driven around by council officers before cars could be leased for them, while the fire service made available its stocks of petrol and diesel.Services for 480 older and disabled people were just about sustained, but a  going before councillors this week says the company had been found to have been making  impossible  demands of the workers on unmanageable rotas. Willcox says she is resolved to do more to check what care providers are doing to fulfil their contracts. But another lesson, she stresses, was the dedication of the care workers   many of them from eastern Europe   who overwhelmingly stuck with the job, and with their clients, despite the personal uncertainty when the company, Cleeve Link, went bust.  To keep on turning up to look after our people was just an incredible credit to them in such extremely difficult circumstances. She fervently hopes that the forthcoming , will embrace issues like workforce and types of care and not focus simply on paying care bills in older age.  The thing I want most from the green paper is a conversation with the public about what they want as the model of social care for the next 20 or 30 years   and then how they want to pay for it. I really hope we don t have one Aunt Sally that people are asked if they like or not. 															