s the flames that engulfed Grenfell Tower died down, the blame game had already begun. One thing everyone has pointed to is the new facade on the building. Residents called it  the plastic . It has since emerged that similar , and is banned from use in tall buildings in the US   and the UK,  (though this is denied by those who installed it).But  the plastic  was not the only potentially dangerous facade at Grenfell Tower. Residents saw the installation of the cladding as part of deeper processes of gentrification and even . Lacklustre concerns around fire safety were another facade. Following a fire at  in Camberwell, London, which killed six people, the authorities knew there were . Instead of responding immediately, the government created another facade   and came to conclusions that were not fully acted on. And then there was the facade of accountability, such as forums set up by the local council to listen to local residents. The council did very little listening and, as a consequence, repeated .Following the blaze, the authorities have hastily thrown up other facades. The council assured everyone that it is doing all it can. It even promised to develop an  individualised housing plan  for each displaced resident. Government ministers have mechanically repeated how  saddened  and  shocked  they are. But it took more than a day for senior politicians to show up on the scene and talk to emergency service while the cameras rolled.It took three days for a comprehensive system to help residents to be put in place. The government has promised to hold an inquiry, but this is also likely to be another carefully managed facade. It will probably take years to complete. A few individuals will probably serve as scapegoats. Some incremental changes will be identified while the substantive issues will probably remain untouched.Once we start to look at the vast administrative facade around this tragedy, the flammable facade of the tower begins to look less out of place. What make this all the more tragic is such administrative facades are all too familiar to us. We have all seen public authorities spending their stretched resources putting up a facade.A problem with the police? Introduce new management jargon while cutting officer numbers. Issues with education? Rebrand schools while reducing the number of teaching aides. Sluggish economy? Showcase a few moderately successful startups while ignoring the tens of thousands of struggling small businesses. Finding it difficult to maintain libraries? Develop a strategic vision while closing library branches. Problems in the elderly care system? Introduce a rankings exercise while underpaying care assistants. Hospitals strained by increased demand? Hire a  transformational leader  who can give a great presentation. Facing a large-scale accident? Scramble government ministers to the nearest TV studio and promise to pass ill-thought new laws that create more problems than they solve.There are some good reasons that governments like putting up administrative facades. It s easier and cheaper to generate a nice image than deal with costly and underlying difficult. But facades can make people uncomfortable. When there is a big gap between image and reality, we start to doubt public institutions and their leaders. A deep cynicism towards government can set in and people may start to reject government institutions, even when they are genuinely doing the right thing.Administrative facades detract time and resources away from the real work a public agency is supposed to do. When this happens, you get defence forces that are more interested in running rebranding campaigns than military training exercises. When public institutions become more obsessed with their facades, they can lose sight of the fact they exist to serve the public. When this happens, public services becomes full of people polishing the shop-front and no one working inside to actually deliver the service.Administrative facades can create hazardous conditions for those inside. If one part of the facade is questioned, the rest can quickly come tumbling down. The fire has shown up serious failures in the government s administrative facade such as poor leadership, slow responses to an emergency, lacklustre planning laws and much more. As these shortcomings have become evident, the whole edifice is in danger of crumbling. It remains to be seen who will be crushed in the aftermath.If we learn one thing from the , it is not just that we should think carefully about the facades we add to our buildings   although we should. The real lesson is that we should try to avoid adding too many facades to our government. Administrative facades can be just as dangerous as physical facades.															