Spending by British consumers is growing at the weakest rate in almost three years, as households squeezed by rising prices tighten their belts. Household spending growth slowed to 0.1% in the three months to June, the , the slowest rate of quarterly growth since the final three months of 2014. Business investment in the British economy showed no growth at all in the second quarter.The slowdown in private consumption, which was worse than expected by City economists, comes as . The slump in the value of the pound since the UK s vote to leave the European Union last year is also taking its toll.Howard Archer, the chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said:  Consumer spending is likely to be pressurised through the latter months of the year by an ongoing appreciable squeeze on purchasing power. Indeed, real incomes growth is likely to remain negative for some months to come. Some of the fall in household spending could be attributed to consumers shifting their car purchases to beat a tax change earlier this year, according to analysts at Capital . We remain optimistic that a modest acceleration in growth in the second half of the year is in prospect,  said Paul Hollingworth, UK economist at the consultancy. After a 0.6% expansion in the first quarter, the flat level of business investment in the three months to June was particularly disappointing to economists, and could point to firms  concerns and uncertainties over Brexit limiting spending decisions. , the TUC general secretary, said the government should keep single-market membership on the negotiating table in Brexit talks to help bolster confidence among firms.  Instead of getting match-fit for Brexit, business investment is sat on the bench and the economy is sliding towards the relegation zone,  she said. The ONS reaffirmed its, illustrating the sluggish pace of the UK economy. With inflation at close to peak levels, the Bank of England could be put off from raising interest rates before late 2018, or even early 2019, according to Archer. Britain s dominant services sector continued to drive the economy, offsetting a slump in construction and manufacturing. Although weaker consumer spending is worrying in the short term, it could allay fears over households continuing to spend on credit cards, potentially building problems for the future. Sebastian Burnside, a senior economist at RBS, said:  Households are responding by slowing that spending and putting their finances on a more stable footing. That might not be good for growth this quarter, but it is a much more reassuring sign for the longer term. Separately, the CBI said retail sales declined in the year to August, disappointing expectations that growth would hold broadly steady. In a survey of 117 firms, of which 57 were retailers, the industry body found sales for the time of year were considered to be below normal to the greatest extent since October 2014.Anna Leach, the head of economic intelligence at the CBI, said:  Retail sales have cooled as higher inflation continues to squeeze consumers  pockets. Looking ahead, firms do expect sales growth to recover, but the pressures on household budgets are set to persist, given little sign of wages picking up. 															