Sterling fell against the dollar on Tuesday after the CPI rate of inflation remained unchanged in July, reducing pressure on the  to increase interest rates to curb the rising cost of living.The pound shed more than a cent to reach $1.2855 on the foreign exchange markets, after the consumer prices index held steady at 2.6% last month, the same level as recorded in June. City economists had expected a slight rise to 2.7% on the back of higher costs for producers following the slump in sterling in the wake of the vote to leave the European Union, which has led to rising inflation this year. The unchanged growth in prices weakens the case for a rate hike by the , even through inflation remains above Threadneedle Street s 2% target. The BoE is next due to make a decision on interest rates next month, after more than a decade without an increase in the aftermath of the financial crisis.The latest CPI figures published on Tuesday could indicate inflation is getting close to its peak, according to economists, after the  in the space of two months. Even so, the BoE s monetary policy committee had said earlier this month it expected CPI to climb to about 3% in October before gradually retreating. Although we expect CPI inflation to rise a bit further over the months ahead, the end of inflation s ascent now looks in sight,  said Victoria Clarke, of Investec. She said the question now turned to whether inflation would outstrip the BoE s 2% target by more than 1%, a level that would require the governor, Mark Carney, to write an open letter to the chancellor to explain why. Inflationary pressures were visible across a number of import-intensive goods including food, clothing and furniture last month, according to the data from the Office for National Statistics. The rate of CPI was curbed by weaker energy price inflation, amid falling fuel prices.There was a fall in the producer prices index, which shows inflation at the early stages of the pipeline before reaching consumers, meaning that the rise in firms  cost pressures eased in July. The data release came at the same time as July s retail price index measure of inflation showed an increase to 3.6%, a typically higher measure of prices than CPI which will be used to calculate the  for commuters in England and Wales. The July inflation data is significant because it shows higher costs for consumers outstripping expected growth in pay, which the BoE has said could be hindered by uncertainty over Brexit harming companies  willingness to raise wages. The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and recruitment firm Adecco said on Tuesday that basic pay over the next 12 months was expected to , well below the pace of inflation, even amid low levels of unemployment.  Although inflation is likely to start falling next year, we understand some families are concerned today about the cost of living,  said a spokesperson for the Treasury. 															