Stock markets across Europe soared as traders reacted to the defeat of an anti-EU candidate in Dutch elections and the latest .The Federal Reserve accompanied its latest rate rise this week with guidance that it would not tighten policy quite as much as financial markets anticipated this year. That message buoyed share prices, adding to the upbeat mood prompted by the .Amsterdam s stock index jumped to a nine-year high after the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, successfully fought off the challenge of the populist . His victory helped to buoy shares in other European markets as it , undermining the eurozone and its economy.The UK s main bluechip index, the  100, clocked up a new all-time high and the main indices in France and Germany closed at their highest levels since mid-2015. Analysts said investor focus would now turn to the forthcoming French presidential election and Brexit negotiations, but that the Dutch result had helped sentiment for now. A cloud of uncertainty has been blown away overnight,  said Joshua Mahony, a market analyst at the online trading company IG.  The loss of Dutch populist Geert Wilders comes as a huge boost to the EU and eurozone, which will now begin to shift its attention to the enactment of article 50, followed by next month s French election. The latest news from the US Federal Reserve was also a key factor in market moves. The central bank raised borrowing costs in the world s biggest economy for the second time in three months on Wednesday, taking the base rate from 0.75% to 1%. It toned down previous guidance on future rises though, and that weakened the dollar.The fall in the US currency helped to power a rally in commodity prices, which boosted the many mining stocks in the FTSE 100. . Glencore, Antofagasta and Rio Tinto were among the top risers as the index closed up 47 points, or 0.6%, at a new high of 7,415.95. Anglo American was the biggest gainer, however, closing up almost 9% after the Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal said he was buying a ?2bn stake.In the US, shares had drifted lower by the London close. The healthcare sector was under particular pressure from proposed changes under Donald Trump s administration that look set to raise companies  regulatory costs. Shares in the luxury winter jacket retailer Canada Goose rose on their first day of trading, jumping to $18.40 at one point, well above the initial public offering price of $12.78.															