t is a truth universally acknowledged that a prime minister in possession of a strong economy wins elections. Governments lose when the country has been put through the wringer, as in 2010, and win when everything s going well, as it is now.There s only one thing wrong with this theory. The economy is not booming   it s struggling. The problems that the Conservatives inherited as part of a coalition in 2010 have not been eradicated. In many cases, they have got worse. Policy mistakes have gone unpunished. Yet the only logical conclusion from  is that the Conservatives are on course for a thumping victory in the big one next month.This happens sometimes. The Conservatives completely mismanaged the economy between the late 1980s and the early 1990s, but won the 1992 election even though the worst housing bust in living memory and  at too high a rate for the pound had sent unemployment spiralling above 3 million. The Tories handled the economy better after 1992, but lost by a street in 1997.At present, opinion polls show the Conservatives a  when it comes to voter perceptions of economic competence. This, though, does not mean the economy is doing well. It doesn t even mean that voters think the economy is doing well. It simply means they would rather have Theresa May running the show than Jeremy Corbyn, just as in 1992 they decided to stick with John Major rather than take a risk with Neil Kinnock.Over the next month, there will be much talk from the  about how they pulled the economy back from the brink of disaster in 2010. This is nonsense. Recovery from a deep recession was already under way by the time the coalition came to power. It was then brought to a halt by tax increases, spending cuts and the blow to confidence caused by absurd claims that Britain was in a comparable state to Greece.One yardstick of how the UK is doing is the growth rate, as measured by movements in gross domestic product. Over the past year, the economy has grown by about 2%, slightly below its long-term trend. But GDP is an extremely crude measure, since it takes no account of increases in population or how any rise in national output is divided up.Wages and salaries provide a better guide to economic welfare. If pay packets are going up faster than inflation, our real incomes are rising. If inflation is rising faster than wage growth, real incomes are falling.Geoff Tily, a senior economist at the TUC, has constructed an international  from 2008 to 2015 using data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It does not make pretty reading: during that period, UK real wages fell by 1% a year on average.According to Tily s analysis, Britain ranked 103rd out of 112 countries for which data was available. It s fair to say that none of the other G7 countries enjoyed spectacular real wage growth either, but the UK was the only one that saw the value of pay packets decline. Of the 34 developed nations that are members of the OECD, the only one that saw weaker wage growth between 2008 and 2015 was Greece. Still, at least British workers did better than Venezuela (104th in the league table), the West Bank and Gaza (105th) and Iran (109th).The UK s real wage performance in 2015 and 2016 was a lot better, not because the level of pay awards accelerated, but because inflation fell sharply as a result of the drop in global oil prices. But since last summer, a rebound in the cost of crude and the post-Brexit vote depreciation of sterling have led to rising inflation. Over the course of 2017, prices will grow more rapidly than pay and as a result, real wages will fall.May and her team would say a different league table   for employment growth   shows the UK in a much better light. That s true, but in a successful economy, wages and employment grow simultaneously. That has been true of every upswing in living memory, apart from the current one.Real wages don t quite tell the whole story, because purchasing power is also affected by government decisions on taxes and benefits. Here, the record of the past decade looks better, although only marginally. Real median income is currently 5% higher than it was in 2007-08, according to the but it would have risen by 15% had the pre-recession trend continued. This gap is set to widen over the next five years so that by 2021-22, real incomes will be 15 percentage points below where the IFS would have expected them to be. In real money, that s ?5,000 a year per household on average.So how strong is an economy where employment is only going up because workers are pricing themselves into jobs by taking real wage cuts, and employers are taking advantage of an abundance of low-cost labour to skimp on investment? The answer is not very strong at all. Indeed, what you really have is a low-productivity economy where large numbers of people rely on tax credits (now being made less generous) in order to make ends meet.What s more, the fragility of the economy is underlined by its performance in the past three years. This, according to the government, is when things started to improve as a result of the  tough  measures taken in 2010 to sort out the mess left behind by the last  government.But the period of relatively strong growth since the middle of 2012 has been based on two factors: the fall in oil prices, which has , and the willingness of consumers to , which has limits. Growth this year will depend less on the housing market,  because property is , and more on the ability of  of the depreciated pound. That would be easier had more of Britain s industrial base survived the travails of the past four decades.The reality is that beneath the surface glitter, the UK has some deep economic problems, from chronically weak investment to profound regional imbalances and a persistent trade deficit. Ministers know this, although for the time being it suits them to pretend otherwise. The general election would not be taking place without the Brexit vote, and  would not be happening had the economy been as strong as the government claims it to be. May has been stating the blindingly obvious when she says the economy is not working for far too many people. If it were otherwise, she would not be prime minister.															