t the start of this year, the civic columns and royal statue of Hull s Queen Victoria Square were brutally intruded on by a 75-metre-long white turbine blade on a plinth. This was the  s monument to wind power, its new hope for a sustainable future at sea.Hull has never recovered from the near-total ending of its long-distance fishing industry after the . For all its efforts, it is Britain s third most deprived local authority, with one large ward, Orchard Park and Greenwood, suffering some of the country s deepest poverty. So the decision by the German manufacturer Siemens in November 2014 to establish Hull as the home of  delivered the city s most far-reaching economic boost for decades.But artist Nayan Kulkarni s giant temporary installation Blade posed equally gigantic questions about the fragility of the city s recovery, and the perils of leaving the EU   to which Siemens itself, local MPs, councillors and business leaders were outspokenly opposed, but 66% of Hull voters favoured. Before the referendum, alarmed by the threat of Brexit, . The uncertainty of a leave vote, and the threat of increased costs from being outside the EU, could make the UK  a less attractive place to do business, and might become a factor when Siemens is considering future investment here , the company said. It concluded:  Siemens does not see any upsides for our business from a potential Brexit. Yet, on the Orchard Park housing estate, talking to people shopping in the small row of shops next to a new health centre (two of which are unoccupied), there is little sign of regret at the vote. A spread of crescents built in the 1960s and 70s to replace inner-city slums and provide ordered modern housing, often for those doing atrociously dangerous work on trawlers, the Orchard Park and Greenwood ward is now , with high levels of unemployment and half of its children living in poverty.Nicholas Sawyers, 42, says he grew up on the estate, and is proud of it and its people. Like many, he enjoyed the emotive light show depicting Hull s history which opened the City of Culture year, but says he thinks Blade is  a monstrosity . A former publican, Sawyers is now unemployed. He applied three times for one of the initial round of 650 jobs at  but without success. He says he voted to leave the EU principally because of all the money Britain pays in. He believes Brexit will be good for the country:  It s so that we can stand on our own feet, like we have done in the past. One middle-aged woman, who is friendly but does not want to give her name, says everybody she knew had voted to leave because of resentment at a growing number of Polish immigrants on the estate. The last census put the number of people in the ward from eastern-European EU countries as 305, or 2%:  Around my doors, they thought it would get rid of the foreigners   but it hasn t, and it won t,  she says.Steven Bayes, who has been a Labour councillor for Orchard Park and Greenwood for 32 years, says poverty has been an entrenched problem on the estate for generations. But he is bemused at people developing  a strange fear of foreigners  and believes the vote to leave the EU was like  turkeys voting for Christmas . In a port city facing Europe, connecting to the much more substantial trading hub of Rotterdam, and with ferries leaving for Zeebrugge in Belgium twice a day,  has always relied on trade. It s very foolish,  Bayes says.  We are European, and this will make it much harder to export to Denmark and Germany. Immigration has done a power of good in Hull; people have come and occupied properties which were vacant, and have done difficult jobs other people wouldn t do. The impact of the Brexit vote was felt immediately in the reaction from Siemens, which, with Associated British Ports, had committed a combined ?310m to convert the derelict Green Port site on the Humber and build its new factory. In 2015,  it had expanded its plans, so that the Hull operation would also manufacture wind-turbine blades for export from the UK. The huge blades, three to each turbine in the North Sea, are shaped by hand from fibreglass, balsa wood and resin, and Siemens ultimately aims to recruit 1,000 workers, almost all local. The hunger for the opportunity was so profound that there were 23,000 applications for that first round of 650 jobs. Candidates applied online, and the process involved a three-part interview, including a group exercise and dexterity test.Speaking at the vast factory, one of the chosen recruits, Lewis Stones, 26, describes a patchy working life before Siemens. He began his career as an apprentice plumber before he was laid off in 2008 during the financial crash. He then spent eight years assembling caravans, a significant industry in Hull. That was insecure, too, with periods of being laid off, and Stones says he was  delighted and quite shocked  to be awarded the job at Siemens, for which many of his friends applied too.Like all the new recruits, he had two weeks of training at Siemens  offshore wind-training base at Aalborg in Denmark, and the experience transformed his outlook.  I was going to vote leave,  he says.  People were getting in my head, talking about immigrants taking jobs, not paying taxes and getting houses. I didn t really read into it or know much about it. It was hard to get the right information. In those three months, the anti-immigrant feeling was really ramped up tenfold; you didn t hear about the trade aspect of it at all. Then I came here; I had an opportunity, and security, which takes a lot of stress out   it opens your mind. I thought: this wouldn t work if we left. It s a German company, and it could be isolated. All my mates voted to leave, and they were giving me stick for voting to stay. Hull city council s Labour administration   which bid for City of Culture status in 2013 and is investing ?100m of its capital reserves in civic improvements to overhaul Hull s image   strongly cautioned against a vote to leave, as did local MPs, including Alan Johnson, a leader of the remain campaign. But two-thirds of voters in Hull nevertheless placed their cross for a course to be charted outside the EU.A month after the referendum, the chief executive of Siemens UK, Juergen Maier (who came to Britain as a 10-year-old with his family from Germany in 1984, and  said in a statement that plans for export from Hull .  Those plans were only beginning to happen,  said Maier,  and I expect that they will stall until we can work out exactly what the plan is for how we can participate in EU research programmes, and until all the issues around tariffs and trade have been sorted out. Since then, Maier and Siemens as a whole have pursued a diplomatic line with the UK government. Joe Kaeser, the company s global CEO, made a reassuring speech in parliament last July, saying that Britain is still  a great place to invest . That was hailed by some champions of Brexit as a U-turn, but . Siemens can still make plenty of money for itself in the UK, where the lucrative market for wind power is also being exploited by other European giants including Dong Energy, which is . Their income in this country is, for all practical purposes, guaranteed; the price of electricity is fixed for the first 15 years and their initial investment recouped from a surcharge on the bills paid by British households and consumers. Kaeser and Maier have not reversed their position on possible exports into the EU from Hull. Those plans have been on hold since the Brexit vote.Last November, in its 2015-16 annual report, which revealed income from worldwide operations of  79bn (?69bn) from a global workforce of 351,000, Siemens delivered a stark warning to its shareholders about the consequences of Britain leaving the EU.  The UK exit process could heighten business and consumer uncertainty, reduce investment in the UK, pose risks to financial markets and may increase the uncertainties about the future of the EU in the course of the UK exit negotiations,  it said.  A further and massive loss of economic confidence, and a prolonged period of reluctance in investment decisions and awarding of new orders would hit our businesses. Maier  before the referendum, explaining the single market s benefits, setting out facts, but complaining that the debate had been  annoying , insufficiently based on reality, and stirred up  ignorance, intolerance  and  negative and often inflammatory rhetoric against our neighbours .Last week, after Theresa May triggered Britain s article 50 withdrawal from the EU, Kaeser was the first businessman to meet the prime minister, when he again drew a distinction between the profits Siemens is confident it will continue to make domestically in the UK, and the uncertainties for exporting, arguing that free movement of people remains crucial to a successful future relationship with Europe.Maier declined to talk to the Guardian about  but Siemens did show the me around the plant and let us talk to some of the employees. There are motivational messages on the walls, gently encouraging staff to  exceed expectations,  and  be amazing every day .Josh Cowling, 22, another of the 650 recruits, says he, like Stones, was glad to have a proper, secure job, having done a geography degree but been unable to find a career related to it. He spent time working at the Scunthorpe steelworks where his father worked all his life; it was the period of financial difficulties last year just before , contractors were being laid off, and it was  very insecure , Cowling says. In the referendum, he voted to remain:  It was difficult to pick out the right information from the campaigns, but overall I felt it would create far too much uncertainty to leave the EU. Following a consultation with businesses in the region, the Humber local enterprise partnership (LEP) chaired by Lord Chris Haskins, former chairman of Hull-based Northern Foods, outlined a series of concerns about Brexit s impact on the economy in a letter sent to several government ministers. They included David Davis, the minister for exiting the EU, whose constituency is nearby Haltemprice and Howden.Haskins acknowledged that there could be opportunities from leaving the EU: the depreciated pound might help exports, and importers could be encouraged to produce more equipment locally. Overall, though, the letter reported that local businesses believed exporting would be hit because new trade deals were unlikely to be as good as existing conditions, that local industries, particularly food processing and agriculture, which are big employers,  are heavily reliant on eastern-European labour  to do often difficult work. Haskins also voiced a worry that EU structural funds, for which Hull has consistently qualified as a deprived area, would not be replaced by equivalent British government funding. He further warned that reduced access to the single market would damage the Humber ports. Overall,  the LEP letter concluded,  businesses believe that Brexit will create more problems than opportunities. The short and medium term impact of Brexit on the Humber economy seems likely to be negative. Haskins tells the Guardian he has not received replies from ministers, including Davis, to address these concerns. Asked by the Guardian for his view, Davis did not respond to the detail, but a spokesman for his department issued a reply:  We are committed to making Brexit a success for every part of the UK, including Hull and the Humber. We start negotiations to leave the EU from a position of strength   the UK was the fastest growing advanced economy in 2016, and latest figures show there are 92,000 more people in work in Yorkshire and Humber than a year ago. Stephen Brady, the leader of Hull council, is not convinced. Speaking in a room off an ornate corridor in the Guildhall, the civic centre built during the city s flourishing maritime past, he says the council has been determined not to accept  managed decline  and has striven to attract investment. It has maintained services as far as possible despite government cuts of ?104m, 42%, from the annual budget in the last five years.Of the Brexit prospect, Brady says:  It has come as a blow, and created uncertainty when we were trying to build certainty. Theresa May shocked many people with her statement that we ll be out of the single market and the customs union. If trade barriers come up, it will be very bad news. He already fears that an increase in inflation and food costs due to the falling pound will be hard for local people, whose income will not rise to compensate.  I think time will be cruel to this decision,  he says.  There will be a huge price to pay, and if it falls on people s income, there will be a lot of bitter people. Blade, in Queen Victoria Square, was removed on 20 March, having starkly confronted locals and visitors with the ingenuity and power of European engineering, in the UK s City of Culture, while the government prepared to fire the cannon on article 50.															