The  has warned households that living standards will fall this year as the effect of the Brexit vote works its way through to higher prices and meagre pay deals.Presenting a sober assessment of the economic outlook just weeks before the general election on 8 June, the Bank s governor Mark Carney predicted living standards could start to recover in 2018 but , in the meantime, inflation would be higher than pay growth this year making it a  more challenging time  for households.He said inflation, already  was expected to continue rising in 2017 as the pound s weakness since the Brexit vote raised import costs. As the UK embarks on talks to leave the EU, he also highlighted the uncertainty weighing on businesses as they hesitate over awarding pay rises. Uncertainty for companies about the outlook may also have made them unwilling to raise wages at a faster pace until they have more clarity about future costs and market access,  Carney said at a news conference to present the Bank s quarterly inflation report.Against the backdrop of political uncertainty,  and rising inflation, the Bank left interest rates on hold at their record low of 0.25%. But it hinted that they may need to rise sooner than investors were anticipating if inflation continued to overshoot its target and as long as the Brexit process was  smooth .The monetary policy committee was split for its second meeting running over the rates decision, with Kristin Forbes again voting against the other seven members and calling for an immediate rise to 0.5% to keep rising inflation in check. One seat on the committee was empty   the result of resignation by the Bank s deputy governor, Charlotte Hogg, .The forecasts published alongside the interest rate decision were for economic growth to edge up to 1.9% this year from 1.8% in 2016. That 2017 forecast was little changed from a 2% prediction made in February and followed official figures showing .Growth was predicted to slow next year to 1.7%, little changed from February s 1.6% prediction.The bigger changes were on the inflation forecast after faster price rises than the Bank expected. The Bank now forecasts inflation will be 2.7% this quarter, up from the 2.4% rate it was forecasting in February and a stark contrast to inflation of just 0.3% a year ago.It said inflation, on the consumer prices index, would continue to rise further above its 2% target in the coming months,  peaking a little below 3% in the fourth quarter.  But then inflation would ease back in 2018 and the following year.At the same time, the Bank slashed its forecast for average earnings growth for this year to 2% from 3% pencilled in back in February. It expects wage growth to recover in 2018 as unemployment remains low.Once adjusted for inflation, the Bank s outlook for this year translated into a 0.8% drop in average pay, according to the Resolution Foundation thinktank. Its analysis found average pay was now expected to be ?320 lower this year than predicted in the Bank s February inflation report and ?915 lower than it forecast in the May 2016 report that preceded the referendum.The squeeze on household budgets will have repercussions for an economy that is highly reliant on consumer spending to drive growth. But the Bank s policymakers said weaker consumer spending would be offset by rising business investment and an improving trade performance as the weak pound and solid overseas demand boost exports.Explaining its rates decision, the Bank hinted that financial markets  recent expectations were on the low side and that a rate rise could come sooner than many investors expected. However, that statement was based on the market view over the 15 working days to 3 May, which was for only one rate rise to 0.5% over the next three years. Since then, markets have moved to price in around two rate rises.Minutes from the policy meeting said:  On the whole, the committee judges that, if the economy follows a path broadly consistent with the May central projection, then monetary policy could need to be tightened by a somewhat greater extent over the forecast period than the very gently rising path implied by the market yield curve underlying the May projections. The Bank said its view was conditioned on a  smooth  Brexit process. Carney explained this meant getting an agreement on future trading arrangements and having a transition period to that agreement.Paul Hollingsworth, at the consultancy Capital , said the inflation report supported his view that interest rates are set to rise sooner than markets expect.But Suren Thiru, head of economics at the British Chambers of Commerce, said the Bank was too optimistic about the UK s near-term growth prospects. We expect that inflation will weaken economic activity by more than the central bank is currently predicting, with wage growth likely to remain persistently below price growth over the next few years,  he said.  Rising input costs faced by businesses are also likely to weigh more heavily on investment intentions than the Bank of England forecasts currently imply. 															