The  s monetary policy committee will announce its latest policy decision on interest rates at midday on Thursday. Back in August,  Interest rates were slashed to an all-time low of 0.25%; the Bank announced it would buy a further ?60bn of government bonds, expanding its quantitative easing (QE) programme to a total of ?435bn; and plans to buy ?10bn of corporate bonds were revealed.Much has happened since August for the MPC to take into account. , prompting a further sharp fall in the value of the pound. Official figures showed economic growth was stronger than the Bank expected in the months after the Brexit vote in June, with . Meanwhile, there are increasing signs that  as the impact of the weaker pound feeds through to higher import prices.As the next meeting nears, here is a reminder of what some members of the nine-member MPC have had to say since they last voted.The governor has given little away on the likely path of interest rates. Much of the focus in recent weeks has been on . on 22 September, he made only a broad reference to the low interest rate environment.However, he told  on 25 October that the MPC would be taking into account the weak pound when it meets this week: to prop up the UK economy following the referendum. Forbes voted for the rate cut at the MPC s August meeting but opposed the decision to expand QE and buy corporate bonds., she said: Dame Nemat Shafik appeared to take a different view to Forbes when she said  if the UK was to avoid a damaging slowdown following the Brexit vote. Giving  on 28 September, she said:The MPC s most recent appointee said last month .  on 5 October, he stressed that he had not yet made up his mind on how he would vote at the November meeting. However, given his comments and the better than expected growth rate for the third quarter, it seems unlikely that he would back another rate cut at this time.Broadbent said , but warned of an  insidious  threat to business investment.  on 5 October, he said:															