The Bank of England has flagged up new  as Britons rack up debt on credit cards, car purchase schemes and personal loans.Reinforcing , minutes from a policy meeting published on Tuesday suggested it was worried about looser lending conditions such as higher maximum loan limits. The financial policy committee (FPC) announced last week it was launching a review into the credit quality of new lending   underwriting standards and the risk models used by banks   and said it would scrutinise these findings over the coming months. Tuesday s record of the FPC meeting revealed policymakers were worried about the risk to banks and other lenders from rising consumer borrowing, although they played down the risks to the wider economy. If recent strong growth had been driven by weaker underwriting standards, this could reduce the resilience of lenders to shocks. The FPC judged that underwriting standards should be monitored closely,   Overall, the committee judged that, relative to mortgage debt, consumer credit was less likely to pose a risk to broader macroeconomic stability through its effect on household spending. Instead, the recent rapid growth in consumer credit could principally represent a risk to lenders if accompanied by weaker underwriting standards. The FPC, chaired by the Bank s governor, Mark Carney, described household indebtedness as  high by historical standards  and noted it had begun to rise relative to incomes.  Consumer credit had been growing particularly rapidly. It had reached an annual growth rate of 10.9% in November 2016   the fastest rate of expansion since 2005   before easing back somewhat in subsequent months,  the meeting minutes noted. Growth had been broad-based across different segments of the market. Dealership car finance had seen the fastest expansion in recent years, but credit cards and personal loans had contributed materially to the acceleration in consumer credit in 2016. The Bank s latest remarks on household debts follow  and prompting some households to run down savings or turn to loans to cover their living costs.On Monday, . The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said charges could be eased or withdrawn if customers could not afford to curb their liabilities through a repayment plan.The FCA found that 3.3 million people had fallen into a persistent credit card debt spiral, where all their money is spent on repaying interest, while the total debt is never lowered.															