The deal to spend an extra ?1bn over two years in  will do little to disturb the public finances.Of the funds, about ?400m will be directed at new physical infrastructure, ?150m on better broadband, and ?40m will tackle deprivation. Another ?350m will be spent on health and education services. Treasury forecasts show the government will spend ?802bn this financial year and ?817bn in the next. In this context, pumping an extra ?500m a year into Northern Ireland s public services and the local economy is small beer.As Carl Emmerson, deputy head of the , said:  The size of the UK s public finances means you can give away ?1bn a year and it s not much more than a rounding error. But the demand by the Democratic Unionist party that Theresa May rescue the  and the  from Philip Hammond s chopping board gives the chancellor a bigger headache.At the moment, qualifying pensioner households automatically receive a single winter fuel payment, ranging from ?100 to ?300. About 12.3 million people received the tax-free allowance in 2015-16, at a total cost of just over ?2bn.The Tory manifesto failed to say how much of this ?2bn the incoming government planned to save, but the IFS was not alone in guesstimating that the manifesto writers were targeting at least half.A ?1bn saving, if that is what was planned, was not priced into the Treasury s forecasts and therefore its loss is academic. And yet the money would have come in handy this year, when Hammond has conceded that the budget deficit will increase for the first time since 2010.The triple lock guarantees pensioners a rise in the basic state pension of at least 2.5%, the rate of inflation or earnings, whichever is the higher. Hammond wanted to switch to a double lock that dispensed with the 2.5% minimum. Projections for the next five years showed either inflation or earnings would rise at more than 2.5%, so the government stood to gain little or nothing from the move over the life of the parliament. But in the longer term, the double lock was due to pay dividends.The ?1bn DUP deal itself, while small in relation to the Treasury s overall spending, could spark a round of special pleading that wrecks Hammond s forecasts.Nicola Sturgeon was first out of the blocks with a claim that Scotland is due about ?2.9bn based on the way the Barnett formula works for UK government spending. Downing Street said the formula does not apply to the new money, as it is being provided as an addition to the Northern Ireland executive s block grant.In a similar way, the formula did not apply to city deals in Wales and Scotland   the latter of which has seen ?500m spent on Glasgow and ?125m in Aberdeen   or previous packages of support for Northern Ireland, a No 10 source said.About 1.8 million people live in Northern Ireland and they will receive the equivalent of approximately ?537 each. Based on population size, this is the equivalent of an extra ?1.6bn in Wales, an extra ?2.8bn in Scotland, or an extra ?28.5bn in England.When London was given the Olympics at a cost of ?9bn, the UK version of pork barrel politics resulted in very little for the nations and regions of the UK.Emmerson said the main threat to the public finances, apart from a Brexit-induced economic slowdown, comes from the demands for extra spending on health and education and other big Whitehall budgets.The government has already pumped more money into prisons and social care after cuts were considered to have gone too far.  So it s not like the Osborne/Cameron financial settlement has held firm,  said Emmerson. If there is pressure to increase spending on health and education in other parts of the UK, that is where you are talking about big money. 															