The former prime minister  has strongly attacked Theresa May s claim to be the champion of Britain s struggling families, warning that the Conservative government s welfare cuts would leave more people in poverty than under Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s.In his first major intervention in the election campaign, Brown said May s policies would reverse the progress made in tackling poverty under  and leave the country more  economically divided and socially polarised than any other prime minister in living memory ., Brown highlights recent research from the  showing that slow growth in wages and less generous welfare payments would result in a sharp increase in relative poverty over the next five years.He said:  There will soon be more people in poverty in May s Britain   15.7 million citizens   than ever there were in Margaret Thatcher s Britain. And almost 1 million more children condemned to poverty than even in the darkest days of Thatcher-Major rule. People are judged to be living in relative poverty if they are in a household that has to manage on less than 60% of median income. Brown s budgets during his 10 years as Tony Blair s chancellor focused on measures to reduce poverty, including the introduction of tax credits for the working poor and increases in child benefit.He said child poverty, which stood at 34% when John Major lost the 1997 election, was reduced to just over 27% by the time David Cameron became prime minister in 2010, but was now back on the rise.Assuming current official forecasts for wage growth and inflation are correct, Brown said there would be 5.1m children living in poverty   or 35.7% of the total   by 2021-22. Think about that: one in every three boys and girls condemned to a childhood of poverty, every one of those children denied the necessities of life, the means of fulfilling their potential. That fact alone blows apart any Conservative claim to be the party of the many,  Brown said.Household budgets of less well-off families have received a double blow this year. Wages have failed to keep pace with prices, while cuts to tax credits have come into force after being announced by George Osborne in 2015 as part of a renewed attempt to reduce the size of Britain s budget deficit. Child benefit is now only paid on the first two children and housing benefit has been made less generous.Despite some softening of the welfare cuts since May became prime minister, Brown said the impact on families was still severe. Despite a 35% rise in prices this decade, child benefit will have risen by only 2%. Housing benefit no longer covers the rent, heating allowances fail to cover the cost of fuel and crisis loans that used to cover cookers or beds have been dramatically slashed. But here s the most shocking fact of all. Two-thirds of the children now in poverty are from families where someone is working. Forget all the rancid Tory talk of  skivers  and  shirkers : these are men and women working hard, but on breadline wages   with their lifeline, tax credits, being systematically pulled away from them. Brown said poverty was set to rise even among pensioners, a group that is protected by the triple lock, a guarantee that the state pension will rise by inflation, average earnings or 2.5%.The former prime minister said pensioner poverty affected one in three older Britons in the early 90s, but that rate had fallen to one in 10 by the time Labour left office in 2010. He said the trend was now set to deteriorate, with 400,000 more elderly poor by 2022. We are learning the hard way that social progress has to be fought for decade by decade,  Brown said.															