The government has sold its remaining shares in  in a landmark moment for the banking sector almost a decade after the ?20.3bn bailout of the high street lender.It will be confirmed on Wednesday that the Treasury has finally extricated itself from its shareholding in the bank   owner of Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows  which it rescued during at the depths of the financial crisis.At its peak, the government owned 43% of Lloyds but through a series of share sales this has now fallen to zero. This is in stark contrast to , which was rescued at the same time and in which taxpayers still own a stake of more than 70%.Philip Hammond, the chancellor, has already said the government has  in Lloyds, which rescued HBOS at the depths of the financial crisis.While Hammond s figures do not include the ?3.6bn cost of borrowing the bailout funds, the bank s chief executive, , told last week s annual general meeting that the government would make at least ?500m from its investment in Lloyds.The chief executive will now face questions about whether he intends to stay on at the bank, which he joined in 2011 which has cost Lloyds more than ?17bn.He has received about ?40m through salary, pensions, benefits and share bonuses since taking the helm and the removal of the taxpayer stake means he will have met the conditions attached to some of those bonuses, which will be released next year.The turnaround of the bank has in part been fuelled by  s cost-cutting programme, which has taken a toll on jobs. Some 57,000 job cuts have been announced since 2008, although some of these were the result of merging Lloyds and HBOS before he arrived.Ian Gordon, an analyst at Investec, said  significant progress has been made over the past eight years  since the bailout. Then, he said, the bank had an  unsustainable  loan to deposit ratio of 177%   which made it reliant on borrowing on the markets to fund its growth. This has now fallen to 107%   almost a balance between its savers and depositors and requiring less funding on the financial markets.Nearly ?200bn of problem loans and businesses have been sold off and the bank has given up its international ambitions. Once operating in 30 countries, it now remains in just six   leaving it open to concern that it is vulnerable to any economic slowdown in the UK caused by Brexit. Lloyds has a 25% share of UK current accounts, 22% of retail deposits and 21% of mortgages, and as a result of the takeover of credit card company MBNA it will have a 26% share of credit card lending.However, Gordon said the bank s outlook was  set fair  and that it could produce stable earnings in the future. Neil Woodford, one of the City s most respected fund managers, admitted last week he had bought shares in Lloyds after shunning the banking sector for many years.  because of concern about the fines it faced. Lloyds shares closed on Tuesday at 70p   below the 73.6p average price that taxpayers paid them in three stages during the crisis   and, Gordon pointed out, similar to the 69p level they were trading at when Horta-Os rio was appointed to the role.While the last chunk of shares have been sold at a loss, below that breakeven price, the bulk were sold at a profit. The fall in the share price meant that the government sto the public had to be abandoned.Lloyds is also battling with the legal issues. As well as the ongoing PPI scandal, it is currently facing criticism of its handling of compensation to the victims of the fraud in the HBOS Reading branch. Among those complaining is . A by Lloyds TSB comes just days after the collapse of Lehman Brothers sent shockwaves through financial markets. The Financial Services Authority, then the City regulator, says the deal will  enhance finance stability .As financial instability mounts the government announces a . Lloyds TSB renegotiates the takeover of HBOS to 0.605 Lloyds TSB shares for every one HBOS share, from 0.833 a month earlier.Lloyds  Group is created from the purchase of HBOS by Lloyds TSB. The government begins the first of a three-tranche bailout of the group, pumping in ?13bn. Sir Victor Blank is  as chairman of Lloyds. The government puts in a further ?1.5bn. The government backs cash call, buying ?5.8bn of shares. Total rescue deal amounts to ?20.3bn. Taxpayer stake stands at 43%. Eric Daniels leaves and  as chief executive. Lloyds  of ?3.2bn. The bank s bill eventually tops ?17bn.Horta-Os rio takes leave, citing fatigue. He returns to work in January. The taxpayer stake gradually reduces from 43% to 39% for technical results. It is cut to 33% when a formal sell-off of Lloyds shares begins: at 75p a share. at 75.5p, taking the taxpayer holding to 24%.ividends to resume for first time since the bailout.George Osborne  into the market.Osborne unveils plans for a cut-price sale to the public. Philip Hammond, the new chancellor,  to sell cut-price shares to the public.															