The government is expected to sell off its remaining shares in  in the coming week, marking a watershed moment for the sector after the financial crisis.Eight years after pumping in ?20bn to prevent the bank from collapsing, taxpayers will no longer own any shares in an institution that was created in the depths of the financial crisis .The share sale, in the midst of , will highlight the contrast between the progress of Lloyds and that of Royal Bank of Scotland, which is still 73% owned by the government and has yet to make an annual profit since its bailout.At its peak, the taxpayer holding in Lloyds stood at 43% and first started to be scaled back in September 2013. Last week, the bank s chairman, , told shareholders at its annual general meeting that the stake had fallen to 0.25%, with those final shares expected to be disposed of in the coming days.They will not be sold with the fanfare envisioned by George Osborne when he was chancellor. He had ambitions for , which had to  by his successor, Philip Hammond, because of the fall in the bank s shares after the Brexit vote.Instead the shares are being sold off on the stock market through the investment bank Morgan Stanley at prices below the 73.6p average that taxpayers paid during the three-stage bailout that began in January 2009.Hammond has said that despite some of the shares being sold at a loss, the government has . However, that does not take into account the ?3.6bn cost incurred by the government although the bank s chief executive, , told last week s AGM that the government would make at least ?500m from the bailout.The return to the private sector has led to 57,000 job cuts   in part because of cost-cutting implemented in the merger but also subsequent efficiency drives to boost profitability.The bailout also required a restructuring of the bank. While a competition inquiry was averted after the HBOS deal was clinched at the height of the crisis, the EU required 600 branches to be sold off. Those TSB branches are now owned by  of Spain. Lloyds still has a 25% share of current accounts, 22% of retail deposits and 21% of the mortgage market, largely through Halifax.The recovery of Lloyds has also been held back by a bill of more than ?17bn to compensate customers missold payment protection insurance (PPI)   about half the industry s total.Horta-Os rio, who has been paid more than ?30m since becoming chief executive in 2011, will now face questions about his own plans. He has focused the bank on the UK, which now accounts for 97% of its business, after retreating from 30 countries to six.The Portuguese banker is also expanding into credit cards,  to increase Lloyds  market share from 15% to 26%, at a time when concerns are being raised about the speed of consumer credit growth.Horta-Os rio is also facing anger from businesses hit by the loans scam at the HBOS branch in Reading.  in February after a jury heard they splashed out on  and sex parties, while destroying businesses they had been lending to. Lloyds  to compensate 64 victims including the  but is facing questions about whether it will be enough. A by Lloyds TSB comes just days after the collapse of Lehman Brothers sent shockwaves through financial markets. The Financial Services Authority, then the City regulator, says the deal will  enhance finance stability .As financial instability mounts the government announces a . Lloyds TSB renegotiates the takeover of HBOS to 0.605 Lloyds TSB shares for every one HBOS share, from 0.833 a month earlier.Lloyds  Group is created from the purchase of HBOS by Lloyds TSB. The government begins first of a three-tranche bailout of the group, pumping in ?13bn. Sir Victor Blank is  as chairman of Lloyds. The government puts in another ?1.5bn. The government backs cash call, buying ?5.8bn of shares. Total rescue deal amounts to ?20.3bn. Taxpayer stake stands at 43%. Eric Daniels leaves and  as chief executive. Lloyds  of ?3.2bn. The bank s bill eventually tops ?17bn.Horta-Os rio takes leave, citing fatigue. He returns to work in January. The taxpayer stake gradually reduces from 43% to 39% for technical results. It is cut to 33% when a formal sell-off of Lloyds shares begins:  at 75p a share. at 75.5p, taking the taxpayer holding to 24%.ividends to resume for first time since the bailout.George Osborne  into the market.Osborne unveils plans for a cut-price sale to the public. Philip Hammond, the new chancellor,  to sell cut-price shares to the public.The taxpayer is expected to exit Lloyds Banking Group.															