The Labour pledge to raise corporate taxes (, 10 May) is the economically responsible reaction to the failures of corporate tax competition. The deductive mathematical models from supply-side economics that justify low corporate taxation assume that  the state  is purely self-seeking and  the firm  an efficient bundle of contracts that creates wealth. They ignore the historical functions of actual states as the primary force for social integration and development in capitalist systems. They ignore the shift of actual large corporations away from the  retain and reinvest  model of the post-war period to the extractive  downsize and divest  model of the present, to use  terms.Supply-side theory insists that reduced corporate taxation equals increased productive investment and long-term wage growth, but where is the evidence for this outcome? The  competitively  lower taxed UK has seen slower improvements in productivity than Germany, France, Sweden, Norway or the US, which retains the highest corporation tax of all. British business expenditure on R&D as a proportion of GDP has declined in the last decade and the UK has suffered a historic drop in real wages. In an era of unprecedented corporate profits and high cash holdings the evidence for the redundancy of tax relief is remarkable: UK corporate tax cuts have apparently translated straight into higher shareholder payouts and share repurchases to further inflate the share price: ie they have been absorbed into the prevailing US and UK dynamic of financial value extraction that underpins the escalating wealth of the 1%, not an investment dynamic.Investment funds typically consider a?dividend payout ratio (the relationship?of payout to earnings) of over 55% as indicating a drain on long-term earnings potential and unsustainable. By August 2016 the ratio for the FTSE 100 stood at 107%.Large corporations may decry Labour s tax policy but the OECD evidence is that firms intent on long-term investment (rather than, say, mergers and acquisitions to secure tax breaks) are primarily concerned with the skills base, infrastructure and R&D. Labour s corporate tax policy is essential not just to help pay for this human and fixed capital investment but to wean large UK firms off the crack of wealth extraction and back to wealth creation. How can there be  strong and stable  government until that happens?cs It is encouraging that housing policies are gaining more attention in the election debates. However, there is an elephant in the room called council tax and the basis on which it is levied. A revaluation of domestic dwellings is long overdue and it is needed to put local authority finance on a sound footing. My house is in the middle band but it is now worth at least three times the average price of houses in Bristol.I can t be the only one who could be persuaded to pay more if by doing so it would put an end to the closure of parks, libraries, children s and day centres, public toilets and the continual erosion of bus services etc. These collectively provided services are vital aspects of citizenship which the market can never replace.															