The pound fell to an eight-week low and shares in housebuilders, banks and retailers lost ground after the shock election result, which increased uncertainty over both the forthcoming Brexit talks and the UK s economic prospects.But the currency recovered from its worst levels as Theresa May announced  and vowed to press ahead with Brexit negotiations. So after falling 2.5% to $1.2635, its lowest since 18 April, sterling stood at $1.2737, down 1.65%, when London trading closed. Against the euro, it slumped to a seven-month low of  1.1289 but recovered to  1.1380, down 1.5%.Connor Campbell, financial analyst at spread betting firm Spreadex, said:  Though the current chaos is bad news for the instability-averse pound, if it leads to a softer Brexit it may end up working in the currency s favour. Of course, that is a big if, meaning for now sterling is focused firmly on the latest bout of political turmoil. On the stock market the FTSE 100   packed full of companies with big overseas earnings which benefit from a weaker pound   rose just over 1% to 7527.33 while the  250, down initially, recovered after the DUP talks to close up 0.13% at 19,769.But UK-focused companies were hit by concerns about a further squeeze on consumer spending following the latest fall in the pound and the fallout from the election. Analysts at UBS said:  Such significant political uncertainty will further dampen sentiment and confidence, exacerbating the weakness we have already been starting to see over recent months. Among the market s leading fallers were Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group, housebuilders Taylor Wimpey and Barratt Developments, and retailers Marks & Spencer and Next. Construction groups such as Balfour Beatty dropped sharply on worries that a hung parliament could slow down the award of government contracts.Meanwhile business leaders called for a new government to focus its efforts on the economy and the Brexit discussions. CBI director-general Carolyn Fairbairn said:  There has never been a more important time to refocus on the economy and plan with confidence and ambition. The next government needs to deliver an open, competitive and fair post-Brexit economy that works for everyone across all our nations and regions. With only 10 days before Brexit talks begin, the UK needs to be fast out of the blocks. Agreeing transition arrangements and guaranteeing EU citizens  rights should be early priorities to get the talks off to a good start and show to the world that trade and people come first. Dr Adam Marshall, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said the electorate s split decision would generate further uncertainty for businesses  who are already grappling with currency fluctuations, rising costs, and the potential impacts of Brexit .He said companies had been doing their best to screen out political noise for months to focus on their own operations, but warned:  This result will prove much harder for UK businesses to ignore. Terry Scuoler, chief executive of manufacturers  organisation the EEF, said business had got used to political uncertainty in recent years but warned it was now essential that politicians  put industry first .Scuoler added:  The Brexit negotiating strategy requires a careful rethink. Industry should be at the table   to help ensure we have the right negotiating position, which is something that s been sadly lacking until now. Ratings agencies warned of further possible downgrades to the UK s credit rating. Standard & Poor s, which a year ago stripped Britain of its prized triple-A rating, after the Brexit vote, said:  a further downgrade or downgrades could be in the wings .Kathrin Muehlbronner, a senior vice-president at Moody s and lead UK sovereign analyst, said:  The future path of the UK sovereign rating will be largely driven by two factors: first, the outcome of the UK s negotiations on leaving the European Union and the implications this has for the country s growth outlook. Second, fiscal developments, given the country s fiscal deficit and rising public debt. A third credit ratings agency, Fitch, said a second poll could not be ruled out:  While [the DUP deal] would avoid a prolonged period of coalition talks, the terms of the agreement are unclear and another election in the near term is possible. 															