The pound slumped to three-decade lows against the US dollar after the Brexit vote on worries about the UK economy s long-term prospects outside the EU. This month, Sterling has been caught in the crossfire as the euro made gains and the dollar faltered. The pound dropped to its lowest level against the euro in 2017 after Mario Draghi, head of the European Central Bank,  Meanwhile, dovish comments from the Federal Reserve and political turbulence in Washington fuelled a drop in the dollar against sterling. Compared with the night of June s referendum, the pound is down about 13% against the dollar and around 16% against the euro.The FTSE 100 index of shares in big companies plunged the day after the referendum but quickly recovered and ended 2016 at an all-time peak. That rise was driven in part by the pound s weakness which helps the many companies in the index that report in dollars and those that export from the UK. The FTSE 100 was buoyed after Janet Yellen, the chair of the Federal Reserve, suggested weak  The FTSE 100 is now around 15% above its level on the night of the Brexit vote. The more domestically-focused FTSE 250 index of midcaps is up about 13% from its level on 23 June.Inflation has risen since the Brexit vote as the pound s sharp drop makes imports to the UK more expensive. Last month the rate of inflation unexpectedly remained static at 2.6%, the same level as recorded in June and lower than economists had predicted. The figure, which could indicate inflation is close to its peak, was mainly driven by lower petrol and diesel prices, offsetting the rising cost of food, clothing and household goods. But it will be noticeable to households who were enjoying a period of virtually no inflation at all before the Brexit vote. At 2.6% inflation is still well above the Bank of England s 2% target, while it s also contributing to the fall in real wages as prices rise faster than There has been , raising hopes that a stronger trade performance can offset a downturn in consumer spending. But the latest official trade figures for June showed the weaker currency had failed to lift sales of UK-made goods abroad, leading to the  Exports fell by 2.8% but imports rose by 1.6% according to the . It was the biggest deficit in nine months and much wider than economists  forecasts of ?11bn.Key barometers of firms  sentiment about business activity were positive in July, as they recovered from previous weaker levels. , up from 54.2 the month before. A figure above 50 indicates expansion, while the survey also beat economists  forecasts for 54.4. The reports are tracked for early clues on official GDP figures, and showed job creation quickened in July, while production picked up and order books improved, according to the poll of purchasing managers at more than 600 industrial companies.There was , as the government recorded its first budget surplus for that month in more than a decade. Public sector net borrowing last month, excluding the nationalised banks, was in surplus by ?184m, according to , while City economists had expected the government to record a ?1bn deficit. However, the boost could just be a one-off blip, as July is typically busier for self-assessed tax receipts. , the Treasury s independent forecaster, expects that the public sector will borrow ?58.3bn during the current financial year, an increase of ?13.2bn on the year ending March 2017.The lowest level of unemployment since the mid 1970s could be starting to boost the bargaining power of British workers, although the squeeze on real earnings is still persisting amid higher levels of inflation. Wage growth in the three months to June was 2.1% higher than in the same period in 2016, and up from 2% in the three months to May and a recent low of 1.8% in April. However, adjusting that to account for the impact of inflation, pay was down 0.5% on the year. Britain s consumers took a more cautious approach to shopping in July as rising prices pushed them to tighten their belts, although higher spending on food helped to keep the growth in retail sales on a par with June. , although the result still beat analysts  expectations for a rise of 0.2%. Only higher spending on food in supermarkets kept retail sales growing, helping to offset falling sales in every other sector tracked by the statistics authority. The latest monthly snapshot from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (Rics) showed house price growth slowed last month, albeit concealing diverging trends across the country.  However, while prices are falling in London, there have been increases in Northern Ireland, the West Midlands and the South West.  for the slowdown and forecastfor at least the next year.Employment figures show eastern European workers are reducing in numbers in the UK following the Brexit vote, which has probably  There was a 1.1% drop in the number of workers from eight former Soviet countries including Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic to 997,000 in the three months to June from the same period a year ago, according to figures from the ONS. While the availability of jobs in the UK is continuing to attract workers from overseas, the  Between April and June 2016, and the same three months of 2017, the number of non-UK nationals from the EU working in Britain rose by 126,000 to 2.37 million. In the previous year, there had been an increase of 242,000. 															