The rapid growth in borrowing by consumers appears to be slowing amid a squeeze on households, despite remaining at levels unseen since the financial crisis.The annual rate of growth for consumer borrowing through credit cards, overdrafts and personal loans slowed to 9.8% in July, the lowest rate of expansion since April 2016, according to the . The growth rate was a little weaker than in recent months, when the pace of expansion was above 10%. , as households come under pressure to tighten their belts from higher prices fuelled by a drop in the value of the pound since the EU referendum. Wages rose by 2.1% in June, while inflation  in July, leading to negative earnings growth. The figures come as research from , a practice that it said Britain s financial watchdog should ban.Weaker levels of growth in consumer credit could relieve pressure on the Bank to raise interest rates to slow the rapid expansion in the supply of money. Sluggish GDP growth and inflation coming close to its peak could put off a rate rise until late 2018, or even early 2019. Howard Archer, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said the figures would be a relief to the Bank.  While any interest rate hikes would be limited and gradual, even small increases could cause problems for many consumers given high borrowing levels,  he said.In cash terms, consumer credit increased by ?1.2bn last month, below the estimate from a poll of City economists surveyed by Reuters and the smallest rise this year. Still, at the current pace of expansion, Britons are racking up debt at almost five times the growth rate of earnings. Total unsecured borrowing by consumers also remains at levels unseen since the financial crisis   at ?201.5bn, the highest level since December 2008. Paul Hollingsworth, a UK economist at the consultancy Capital , said:  Given that credit is still rising fairly strongly, it suggests that households are confident enough to borrow in order to maintain spending while real incomes are being squeezed. The figures from Threadneedle Street also show lenders approved 68,689 mortgages last month compared with 65,318 in June, returning to levels seen earlier this year. The value of mortgage lending increased by ?3.6bn, slowing from ?4.1bn in June.Even so, mortgage approvals remain well below the average monthly levels seen in recent decades. Demand for new home loans could also be being stoked by record low rates on offer, encouraging borrowers to remortgage in order to lock in bargain deals. The effective rate on new individual mortgages was 1.95% in July, according to the Bank, the first time this measure has fallen below 2%. Archer said:  While July s marked pick-up in mortgages may ease some concerns over tepid housing market activity, we have doubts that it marks the start of a significant upturn. There could also be signs that businesses are about to invest more, as borrowing by firms stood at ?8.9bn last month, its highest level since July 2014. However, this may jar with recent indicators of business confidence, while the most recent figures from the  reveal firms  investment in the UK economy showed no growth at all in the second quarter.Instead, the surge in corporate borrowing could reflect firms fearing higher interest rates and locking in low borrowing costs, according to Samuel Tombs, the chief UK economist at the consultancy Pantheon Macroeconomics.  The risk of a near-term rate hike, however, has receded, suggesting that corporate borrowing will fall back soon,  he said.															