The sale of Arrium and its troubled Whyalla steelworks is expected to be delayed today while the federal government finalises a deal that would give one of the bidders up to $400m in taxpayers  funds. The  hangs in the balance as administrators finalise a deal to sell off the company. There are currently two offers made for Arrium, but only one is set to receive direct financial assistance from the federal government. That bid is from a Korean private equity firm, led by Newlake Alliance and JB Asset Management, and backed by technology from steelmaking giant Posco. The Korean bid is understood to have asked for $400m in federal funding, on top of about $50m offered by the South Australian government to whoever buys the company. The Korean bid is the preferred offer and is overwhelmingly backed by the creditors  committee, which includes the big four banks: Commonwealth, ANZ, Westpac and NAB. But a second bidder, UK commodity traders Liberty House Group, has offered to buy Arrium and keep Whyalla operational without any federal funding assistance.Liberty has only asked for a loan guarantee from the federal government and made a revised offer this month, but has been largely left out of ongoing talks since the Korean firm was named the preferred bidder on 15 June. A source close to the negotiations said the deal to sell Arrium was due to be made today, but the administrators, KordaMentha, had agreed to an extension after representations were made by the federal government. The source said the Korean firm was still preferred.  Clearly, the government wanted a bit more time, by the look of it. It s no big deal, things are pretty close,  the source said.  It s a lot of money from the government, and if they want more time, it doesn t particularly faze anyone.  Former industry minister  travelled to Korea late last year to meet with Posco about the Arrium sale. He was joined by the South Australian treasurer, Tom Koutsantonis, and the then Australian Workers  Union national secretary, Scott McDine. Hunt described the negotiations as positive. We stood together and made it clear that we are determined to work with any potential buyer for the steelworks to support the workers of Arrium and the Port Pirie community,  Hunt said.AWU has been lobbying privately and publicly in support of the Korean bid, which it says is superior. The union says it involves a $1.4bn investment in the Whyalla steelworks and gives it another 30-year lifespan. The Korean bid relies on the use of a Posco technology, known as Finex, which removes the need for a blast furnace and is said to lower emissions.The bid also relies on the installation of a new 220MW gas-fired power plant, which it says will support the South Australian electricity grid.A spokesman for the industry minister, , said the sale of Arrium was a matter for the administrator, KordaMentha.															