The shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, needs only to cast his mind back to the March budget to judge the public s reaction to higher taxes.  paid by the better off among the self-employed was widely condemned, not least by McDonnell himself. on those earning more than ?80,000 overcomes the objections of all but an elite, who have fared well enough since the 2008 crash while ordinary working women and men have seen their incomes barely recover.It is understandable that McDonnell should focus on figures from official statistics that show the average wage is only ?26,500 and that 40% of the workforce earn so little that they do not pay any tax at all when judging who should pay more towards squeezed public services.To earn more than ?80,000 is to put yourself in the top 5% of earners who must, by virtue of their income, have a greater capacity to contribute at a higher rate than those further down the pay league.Families across most of the income scale suffered years of shrinking real pay packets after the financial crisis and rising inflation is eating into earnings again this year. How,  asks, can the low paid be asked to make a bigger contribution when they remain among the worst hit by the financial crisis in the developed world?But McDonnell is caught in the same trap as his Tory counterpart when he says that targeting a relatively small group   the top 5% in his case, the self-employed in Hammond s   can overcome the still significant deficits in the public finances.Official figures covering the existing tax bands show that . A 1% increase for the ?150,000-plus band would only bring in just ?165m. It is a reasonable guess to say the revenue generated by an extra tax on a new ?80,000 band would be nearer the latter and not the former, even should Labour push the ?150,000 back towards the old 50p rate.Only a 1% rise on the basic 20p rate would bring in the sums needed to move the dial on the public deficit. It would add an annual ?4.5bn to the exchequer s bank balance.This electioneering, when the political parties argue that someone other than the mainstream voter can fund public services, has been called  the candour deficit  by the Resolution Foundation.McDonnell says his sums will add up once plans to raid capital gains and corporate profits are taken into account, but experience shows that, like it or not, these are avoidable taxes. Not just because HMRC lacks the resources to catch the avoiders, but because profits can be delayed or disguised if it is worthwhile doing so. Ironically, given the level of pay involved, people earning about ?80,000 have seen their incomes stagnate. It is the top 1% (those earning over ?162,000) who have run away with the gains made since the financial crash, but there are not enough of them to raise the funds needed. Taxing their wealth would make a difference, but governments need to cast the net wider to haul the public finances out of the current mire.															