The shops were full of punters. Online retailers coined it in. Spring brought with it an end to the winter consumer spending blues.That at least is what the official figures suggest. , smashing City expectations. It was enough, in combination with Donald Trump s political woes in Washington, to send the pound back through the $1.30 level to its highest since last September.But hang on a minute. This is the same Office for National Statistics that said earlier this week that  because wages were failing to keep pace with prices. Something doesn t quite add up.One explanation is that the ONS has got its seasonal adjustment wrong. The late timing of Easter this year would be expected to lead to a rise in spending between March and April and the ONS tries to make an allowance for this. But it is not an exact science, which is why the monthly movements in retail sales often look quite dramatic. April s big rise followed a 1.4% fall between February and March.The weather also has an impact, particularly for certain sectors of retailing. April was a relatively warm month, which tends to increase footfall in the high street. Garden centres seem to have done especially well.A less benign explanation is that consumers are either ignoring the squeeze on their real incomes or are oblivious to it. If so, expect to see an increase in consumer debt over the coming months.This, though, does not square with what happened in the first few months of 2017, when consumers did seem to be tightening their belts after spending freely in the second half of 2016. Despite record levels of employment and ultra-low interest rates, there was a marked slowdown in retail activity.All of which suggests that the April increase in retail sales should be treated with some caution. The ONS always suggests that looking at retail sales over the latest three months is a better guide to what s happening than a single month s data, and that advice is particularly apposite here.Between the three months ending in January and the three months ending in April, retail sales volumes rose by 0.3%. That looks about right and fits with the general picture of an economy that is not about to plunge into recession but is not exactly firing on all cylinders either.has much to say about consumer protection. Action is pledged to help motorists, rail passengers, leaseholders and phone users. Despite the derision heaped on Ed Miliband when he proposed the self-same policy two years ago, there will be a price cap on energy bills, which ministers estimate would be worth ?1.7bn a year to households.There is, though, one big omission from the list: help for people buying their own homes on standard variable rate (SVR) mortgages, who could save themselves money by moving to a cheaper home loan deal.This is curious for three reasons. Firstly, the savings are considerably higher than for the energy cap. Banking analysts at Bernstein note that it is possible to get a two-year fixed rate mortgage at 1.4% while the 35% of mortgage payers on SVRs are paying 4.2% (on average). If they remortgaged at the market interest rate of between 2.2% and 2.6% they would save themselves between ?5bn and ?7bn a year. Lloyds, by virtue of owning the Halifax, would stand to be the biggest losers.Secondly, savings of this size would ease the pressure on living standards and help the economy through its current sticky patch. The evidence suggests that those on SVRs tend to be lower-income households in the poorer regions of Britain. They would spend any windfall they received from a lower mortgage rate.Finally, there is a simple mechanism by which the government could effect change. Competition in the mortgage industry means that people are coming off SVRs albeit at a slow rate. But lenders that are charging what are effectively rip-off mortgage rates have received more than ?100bn in cut-price funding from the Bank of England in recent years. That provides the government with considerable leverage. It should not hesitate to use it.Returning to Lloyds, the government s disposal of its stake in the bank - which once stood at 43%   has prompted speculation that its boss Ant nio Horta-Os rio will now consider it job done and head for the exit. The Portuguese banker seems to be trying to quash such talk: he spent ?36,000 on shares on Wednesday, not usually the actions of an executive about to walk.															