The UK economy has shown signs of picking up over recent weeks as strong demand from overseas helped offset moribund consumer spending at home, according to a survey that will welcomed by Theresa May s government as next month s election approaches. News that Britain s services sector enjoyed its fastest growth for four months in April follows  signalling similar improvements for the smaller manufacturing and . Together they will soothe fears around the UK economic outlook after official figures showed  in the first quarter. But behind the positive headlines there were continued signs that  as . Hotels and restaurants were among the consumer-facing businesses feeling those effects in April, the services report showed.The main business activity reading on the  (pdf) rose to 55.8 in April from 55.0 in March. That was well above the 50 mark that separates growth from contraction and confounded forecasts for a dip to 54.5 in a Reuters poll of economists.Job creation also picked up, according to the survey, which excludes government services and retail but still covers half of the overall services sector. It found services were confident about their prospects for growth over the year, although the degree of optimism moderated for the third month running.The survey compilers also noted that in the face of rising costs, companies were putting up their prices at the fastest pace since July 2008, adding to pressures on consumers. Costs have risen due to higher crude oil prices and because the pound s drop since the Brexit vote makes imports more expensive.Chris Williamson, chief business economist at the PMI report compilers, IHS Markit, said the polls for services, construction and manufacturing together pointed to GDP growth accelerating at the start of the second quarter.  While we expect consumer spending to slacken in coming months, with the April survey highlighting continued weakness in sectors such as hotels, restaurants and other household-facing businesses, there s good reason to believe that at least 0.4% GDP growth can be achieved in the second quarter as a whole,  he said.In the first quarter, GDP growth slowed to 0.3% from 0.7% in the final three months of 2016.The services report said April s pick-up in activity was partly down to resilient business-to-business demand, which includes activity such as a firm hiring legal or consultancy services. There was also support from new product launches and, in some cases, another rise in sales to overseas clients.The authors said new business expanded at a faster pace in April and that  anecdotal evidence from survey respondents suggested that greater business-to-business sales had helped to offset subdued discretionary consumer spending .Alan Clarke, economist at Scotiabank, said the survey  probably overstates the buoyancy of growth , noting that it excludes the retail sector, which has been hurt by weaker consumer spending in recent months. Pretty much everyone is expecting growth to slow this year because of a weakening consumer,  he added. Still, I d be minded to think that GDP rebounds a little bit into the second quarter, probably up from 0.3% quarter-on-quarter in the first quarter to 0.4-0.5% quarter-on-quarter during the second quarter. The reports will provide more mixed signals for the Bank of England s monetary policy committee to debate when it meets to set interest rates and publish its latest forecasts for the UK economy next week.The Bank, under governor Mark Carney, has repeatedly said it faces a trade-off between keeping inflation under control and supporting growth and jobs. Most economists have taken that as a signal interest rates will be held at their record low of 0.25% well beyond the end of this year. But one member voted against the other eight at the last meeting, calling for a rate rise. The MPC likely will place much more weight at next week s meeting on the weak official data for the first quarter than on April s better PMIs, and we expect Kristin Forbes to remain alone in voting to raise interest rates,  said Samuel Tombs, the chief UK economist at the consultancy Pantheon Macroeconomics., also published on Thursday, hinted at a slowdown in consumer spending and confidence. They showed approvals for mortgages dipped to a six month low in March, the latest sign of a softening housing market. Consumer borrowing also grew at a slower annual pace.															