The vote to leave the EU has increased demand for consultants and boosted their pay as jittery business chiefs bring in outside help to navigate uncertain times, according to a snapshot of the jobs market.The average advertised salary for consultancy jobs was 8.9% higher than a year ago at ?47,760 in August, according to jobs search engine Adzuna. The increase defied the trend of the overall jobs market, where the average advertised salary was down 1.6% from August 2015.The higher salaries on offer for consultants reflected a significant increase in demand. Consultant jobs were up 10% on a year ago, again bucking the trend of the overall jobs market where vacancies dipped 2.3% from a year ago.Adzuna, which tracks job adverts from about 500 sources, said the market was still looking resilient in the face of political uncertainty after June s referendum. It also noted that while advertised salaries were down on a year ago, they were up in month-on-month terms, by 0.3% to ?32,784 in August. That was the first monthly rise since February.Alongside consultants, other sectors enjoying year-on-year salary growth in August included maintenance, with a 12.1% rise, and public relations (PR) at 4%.Doug Monro, Adzuna s co-founder, said the consultancy industry was benefitting from the leave vote.  In an uncertain environment, companies are looking for highly skilled experts, without having to shoulder the burden of an expanding wage bill. Consultants are also helping them demystify the business consequences of the vote,  he said. Other industries like PR are also seeing salaries rise as employers prefer to commission projects to outside agencies, rather than hire permanent internal staff. Official data since the referendum showed  in the wake of the Brexit vote, but unemployment held at a multi-year low. Other indicators suggest  but that businesses are nervous about investing and hiring as they wait to see when Brexit negotiations will begin and how they will progress. Adzuna s monthly jobs report showed there continued to be significant variation around the UK in competition for jobs. Nationwide, the number of jobseekers per vacancy remained at 0.49. Northern Ireland had the highest competition, with 8.39 jobseekers per vacancy. It was also the region with the lowest average advertised salary at ?28,134.Competition was lowest in south east England, where applicants had the upper hand over employers with a ratio of just 0.25 jobseekers per job   four jobs on offer for every jobseeker. Salaries there were second highest in the UK behind London, at an average of ?31,817.															