The Western Australian election result confirms that the Australian polity has totally mastered the art of opposition. It s the governing side of things that is proving the difficult part.Whether you are a recently punted administration still licking your wounds or a perennially bench-warming opposition, if you can t excite a backlash against the sitting party then your heart really isn t in it. Which is not to detract from the victory of Mark McGowan and his team, merely to mark the wild swings inherent in the modern two-party state as the new normal.Much has been written about the rise of the anchorless voter, marching away from the major parties, often carrying pitchforks, feeling let down by a lived experience of job insecurity and falling living standards.With close to one in three of the voting public up for grabs, populist alternatives are on the rise, from maverick independents to more organised movements of dissent challenging from the margins of both left and right. Trump and the Tea Party jostle over who controls the Republicans while the contest for the right across Europe flirts with fascism. Meanwhile, left-of-centre social democratic parties are being subsumed by more radical expressions of their dogma from insurgents such as Bernie Sanders and Jeremy Corbyn.But in the reams of analysis the elephants in the room are the actual targets of this populist backlash   the corporate community. The one voice that seems to be missing from the current rage about globalisation and deregulation and all that flows is that of the corporations whose interests the current economic system so manifestly promotes.While political parties implode, the captains of industry, fund managers and those in the C-suite seem to be carrying on as if it s business as usual, hedging their bets with the new players even as they risk beaching themselves on the shores of the tax havens they have so elegantly constructed.Because if populism is a challenge to the post cold war consensus around the benefits of economic growth, trade liberation and global connection, then it is the custodians of the corporate world who have the most to lose.We know from our Essential research ( see below) that the disconnect between public interest and corporate interest has become a chasm. . When people are asked who benefits from privatisation and free trade, it is corporations and not individuals that are seen as the winners. And, unsurprisingly, the Turnbull government s proposal to cut company tax cuts attracts the support of just one quarter of voters.Even among voters who returned a Coalition with this policy at the centre of its economic policy, just 41% garner enthusiasm for the corporate tax cut, while the floating right in  other  flat out reject the proposition. Dig deeper and you pick up the scepticism about both the motives and the effects of the cut. These numbers establish two important principles.First, Bill Shorten and Labor are on a winner opposing the tax cuts at every turn, using them as a counterpoint for every spending cut the Coalition government proposes. But even more profoundly, when propositions about why corporate tax cuts are desirable do not even garner support from a majority of Coalition voters, then you have to surmise business has a deeper problem. Now I m not arguing corporate tax cuts are a good idea   rather that even if the logic were compelling, the failure of Australian business to appear to be anything other than self-serving is why there s no bedrock of public support for any of the things they argue for. Now some in the corporate world seem to be sniffing the breeze. Former Treasury chief and now NAB chairman Ken Henry laid it on the line a few weeks ago when he warned that business had to shift its focus if it wanted a sustainable operating environment.  Australia s business leaders have to accept responsibility for ensuring that strong population growth, and the investment opportunities that go with it, lift economic and social opportunity for all, without damaging the quality of the environment we pass to future generations,  he told the Committee for Economic Development of Australia (Ceda).  If we want better access to skilled domestic workers, then we are going to have to offer those workers the prospect of better lives.   This is an agenda for business that goes beyond tic-a-box notions of corporate social responsibility, with a dedicated team embracing worthy environmental, Indigenous and sustainable projects separate from the day-to-day operations of a company. This a more fundamental notion of  enlightened self-interest  that recognises the way business operates has a bearing on the very environment in which it will operate in the future. Jim O Neil, a former Goldman Sachs executive linked to the UK s Conservative party coined that phrase at a business conference organised by the AFR last week.He argues that the growing increase in the profit-to-wage ratio, stagnating wages, and less secure work are all contributing to the populist backlash threatening Britain s long-term economic prospects.O Neill was joined by others who argued business needed to  sell its story better , which actually misses his central point. It is not just about selling the story of business investment and growth, it is recognising the limits to this story. Within the narrow frame of fiduciary duty, suppressing wages, outsourcing and offshoring jobs, shifting workers onto contracts and labour hire and framing every project to generate maximum return all seem rational business decisions.But in this era of revolving-door government driven further to the extremes, business s enlightened self-interest may demand a rethink of all these orthodoxies if companies are to be truly sustainable. That s important, because if we want our political parties to learn to govern as well as they oppose, then they need new levers to harness business to ensure the economy delivers wealth and prosperity to enough people to justify their mutual prosperity.And one of those levers is the enlightened self-interest of business which sees the yielding of some of its power as an investment in the long-term stability of its operating environment.															