There are two big themes which stand out from this month s data, and they show the UK being pulled in opposite directions by the global economy and consumer spending.On the global front, there has continued to be good news. The three main engines of the world economy   North America, Europe and Asia   continue to be supportive of growth. The IMF is forecasting  in 2017-18 since 2011-12. This is backed up by one of my favourite economic indicators   international air travel. , followed by 8.6% in February   once account is taken of the leap year in 2016. These are strong figures by historical standards   compared with trend growth of 5-6%.This positive picture from the global economy is backed up by the , which shows a very strong picture for exports. The UK is a very international economy and so these positive global trends will be supportive of growth.However, on the consumer side of the economy, the indicators point in the opposite direction.  (compared to the previous quarter). That is the second biggest quarterly fall reported since the mid-1990s. The underlying drivers of consumer spending also look soft.  as both labour demand and supply weakened. There has been a significant drop in the number of EU workers in the UK and the number of over-65s at work has also fallen. Meanwhile, . Inflation has caught up with wage growth and will probably overtake it in the months ahead. So both of the main components which add to rising consumer purchasing power in the UK   employment and real wages   are slowing sharply.The  backs up this picture of a slowing consumer economy. VAT receipts in the first quarter of this year were 1% down in money terms on a year ago. UK consumers contribute twice as much to the demand for goods and services in our economy than exports. So we should expect the consumer slowdown to dominate the growth picture over the course of this year. But strong export performance will be a significant offsetting factor, as long as the world economy remains resilient.The GDP growth figures for the first quarter released at the end of this week are likely to confirm that the UK economy is already slowing. After a quarterly rise of 0.7% in the final three months of last year, I would expect growth of 0.3-0.4% in the first quarter. Not a disaster, but a very marked slowdown.The first stage vote in the French presidential election gave us a sense of the size of the impact on the markets of a Brexit vote in reverse. Markets had largely expected the globalist Emmanuel Macron and the far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen would be , but the results were not fully priced in. In response to the news, the French stock market, the CAC index,  with the banks Soci t  G n rale, Cr dit Agricole and BNP Paribas among the biggest risers. Peugeot the car maker was also up sharply. The FTSE 100 was up and so was the German Dax. The markets would inevitably have been down a lot if the next round had been Le Pen and the far-left candidate Jean-Luc M lenchon. This is an indicator of the scale of what could happen in UK markets if there is a disorderly Brexit disaster. It would likely result in a cataclysmic global fall in markets. Be warned if Le Pen wins the second round, which looks unlikely.Support for Brexit is likely to be driven by how the economy performs and whether living standards hold up and they aren t. Last week,  (pdf) indicated that wage growth had slowed, and inflation had risen to a three year high of 2.3%. But consumer demand was holding up, driven by higher borrowing and dissaving, but this couldn t last for long.  and the only way is up. In uncertain times people should be saving as a precaution not going on a spending spree. Two days later, the Office for National Statistics released the latest retail sales numbers which missed expectations in March.There isn t much other good news.  for men and women.  versus November 2016 -January 2017 by 13,000. The latest trade figures showed  as exports fell and imports rose.I am hoping for some good economic news next month. I didn t see much of any this month.															