Unemployment fell by 11,000 on the month but there was a rise in underemployment   measured as part-timers who want full-time jobs   of 14,000. Also there was a big fall in the number of workers from eastern . For the third month in a row real wages   that is, wage rises adjusted for prices changes   declined, this time by 0.5% for June. Even though CPI inflation was 2.6%, wage growth was only 2.1%. Between April and June real pay was down 1.4%, which means a sharp fall in living standards. Hence retail sales remain weak as consumers are squeezed by the fall in their living standards.The main driver behind this has been the Brexit vote which lowered the pound and increased prices. The claims by some rightwing economists that a free trade nirvana will emerge if there is a hard Brexit has been rightly met this week by incredulity by the economics profession.  It turns out that there is a huge disparity between the overwhelming majority of economists that say we would be worse off with Brexit and the handful that say otherwise.There was other related bad news, including a worsening of the UK s trade performance. Despite a boost in exports from the lower pound, this was matched by the trade in goods deficit widening unexpectedly to ?12.7bn, from ?11.3bn in May. Exports fell by 2.8% but imports rose by 1.6%, according to the Office for National Statistics. It was the biggest deficit in nine months and much wider than economists  forecasts of ?11bn. The move of the public finances to positive territory for the first time in a decade was a brief respite that will not continue. For the year public sector net borrowing at ?22.8bn in the four months to July is nearly ?2bn higher than it was a year ago.The most recent economic data has not fundamentally changed the post-Brexit picture for the UK economy. Growth is slowing in the UK, while it is picking up elsewhere in the EU. There are two obvious reasons why this is the case. First, Brexit is adding to uncertainty about investment decisions and other long-term economic commitments. Second, inflation has risen because the pound has fallen, and this is squeezing consumers  purchasing power. Normally, we would expect a recovery in the other EU economies to benefit the UK. Because of , growth in the UK and other EU economies are now moving in opposite directions.The pound is now extremely weak in historical terms. Since the euro was launched in 1999, sterling has never been below  1.10 and $1.30 at the same time until this month. The devalued pound does not seem to be boosting exports, but it is eroding living standards and squeezing consumer spending.The UK continues to look good in terms of employment, but employment is growing faster in continental Europe. In my view, it is likely that UK unemployment will rise over the next year, as growth is slowing, while the jobless total will continue to fall elsewhere in the EU. Over the recovery following the global financial crisis, the UK has been one of the better-performing economies until now. That may now be about to change, as other EU economies gather momentum and the UK economy falters.															