usterity has been . The result of the general election shows that it has now failed politically as well. Deficit reduction continues, but will no longer dominate the agenda. Theresa May s failed gamble marks the end of a seven-year experiment.Both the 2010 and 2015 elections were fought on ground of the Conservative party s choosing. David Cameron and George Osborne made sure the debate was about which party could be trusted to balance the books. Yet over the past seven weeks, deficit reduction has barely featured. In part, that s because the Conservatives proved incapable of hitting their own targets. But more importantly it was because Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell made the election about investment in schools , and the impact of  on the fight against terrorism.That was much more fertile territory for Labour than an austerity virility contest it could never win. Indeed, it was the investment rather than tax cuts battleground on which Tony Blair and Gordon Brown successfully fought the 1997, 2001 and 2005 elections.Put simply, economic policy in the UK has moved to the left. In 2010 and 2015, the Conservatives could count on voter support   even if reluctant   for their hardline approach. Cameron and Osborne pinned the blame for the  on Gordon Brown, even though it was a global rather than a domestic affair. Similarly, they made it sound like common sense for the government to be tightening its belt when consumers and businesses were tightening theirs   even if it was .It was nonsense economics because if everybody   consumers, companies and government   decides to cut their spending at the same time, the result will be weaker growth and a slower pace of deficit reduction, unless the Bank of England is in a position to negate the impact of belt-tightening with lower interest rates. But Threadneedle Street was not able to do this because borrowing costs were already at rock-bottom levels.Even so, it took time for voters to turn against the politics of austerity. The Conservative line held in 2015 because Osborne engineered a recovery in the housing market and because the collapse in oil prices led to sharply lower inflation and rising living standards. But it was a short-lived recovery and the election was fought against a backdrop of a renewed squeeze on real incomes. It became commonplace during the election campaign to say that on this occasion it was  not the economy, stupid    but in fact it was.Voters protested about the fact that their wages bought them less than they did a decade ago. They protested about the meanest  since the NHS was created in 1948. They protested about cuts in spending per pupil in education and they protested about food banks and rising inequality.Politically, austerity doesn t work if applied for too long, because fatigue sets in. That was true of Britain in the late 1940s and early 1950s and it is true again today. One illustration of austerity fatigue was the way in which the  on Labour s tax and spending plans seemed to have precious little effect.In 2010, and even in 2015, the Tories would have been able to make great political capital out of the IFS s charge that Labour s budget sums didn t add up. This time the attacks bounced off Corbyn and McDonnell, who were upfront about plans to borrow an extra ?250bn over the next 10 years for public investment.May s precarious position at the head of a weakened minority government is the final nail in austerity s coffin. It is not just that Northern Ireland will get some shiny new infrastructure as the price of  to get Conservative bills through parliament. There will be more money for the NHS, no abandonment of the triple lock on pensions and no means-testing of the winter fuel allowance.Deficit reduction did not feature once in the  today, but opportunity, fairness and ensuring nobody is left behind all did. May s problem is that voters clearly do not trust her to deliver those things. The wind is blowing from a different direction.															