Warnings that Britain is heading for a sharp increase in inflation have intensified after a key business survey showed companies in the services sector are grappling with their biggest rise in costs for almost six years.The report into the UK economy s biggest sector, which spans banks to hotels and hairdressers, showed firms suffered their first slowdown for four months in January. This suggests the economy lost momentum at the start of 2017.Companies reported higher fuel and labour costs and said they had to pay more for imports because of the pound s sharp fall since the referendum. There were also further signs that companies were passing on some of that cost burden to customers in higher prices. That will add to concerns that  and will hit consumer spending, a key driver of the UK economy.Living costs have started to rise at a faster pace in recent months on the back of rising energy prices and the pound s weakness.  hit its highest level for more than two years in December at 1.6%, and some forecasters see it going above 3% this year.Food companies have blamed higher costs for imported ingredients as they raise prices in the shops on goods such as ,  and . Prices at the pump have also risen and clothing prices are also expected to increase. High street retailer Next has warned the devaluation of the pound  by up to 5% in the coming months.In the latest sign living costs are rising, Npower said on Friday it was , pushing up dual fuel bills rise by an average of 9.8% or ?109 a year.Despite costs pressures, services firms polled in the latest  (pdf) indicated that they remained optimistic about the year ahead and they continued hiring workers, albeit at a slower pace.The headline index on the report dipped to 54.5 in January from 56.5 the month before. January marks the first time the main activity reading has declined for four months and it was below forecasts for 55.8 in a Reuters poll of economists.Chris Williamson, chief business economist at the survey s compilers, IHS Markit, said the January slowdown followed a . The services report and  and construction still indicated a  buoyant start  to 2017 for the UK economy, he added. The PMI surveys are collectively signalling that GDP will increase by a robust 0.5% in the first quarter, if current growth is sustained in coming months,  said Williamson. That would compare with an official estimate that .The report follows the Bank of England s move on Thursday to , to 2% from the 1.4% it had predicted in November. The Bank also surprised financial markets by edging down its forecast for inflation.The PMI report, which covers firms making up about 50% of the economy, suggested that companies  costs were rising at the fastest rate since March 2011 with pressure from more expensive imports, higher fuel and freight prices and bigger wage bills. Supply chain managers reported that cost burdens were weighing down more heavily and impacting on their business for the seventh time in eight months,  said David Noble, group chief executive officer at the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply, which co-publishes the report. The triple whammy of rising fuel costs, salaries and higher import prices were keenly felt, and these rising costs may have also had an effect on the number of new jobs on offer, reflected in the rate of job creation which was at a five-month low. Strong pressure on costs led firms to increase their charges in January, at a pace unchanged from December s 68-month record, the PMI report said. Inflationary pressures are becoming increasingly concerning,  said Martin Beck, senior economic adviser to the forecasters EY Item Club, commenting on the poll.  It looks increasingly likely that we will not escape a steep pickup in consumer price inflation through 2017. The PMI report polls private sector companies but does not cover retailers or government services. It therefore covers about half the economy, whereas official data on services published with more of a lag covers almost 80%.															