Welcome to Jamland. Formerly known as the United Kingdom, Jamland is where the Jams live.They were once known as the squeezed middle. They have also been dubbed the people who just get on with it. Now, courtesy of Theresa May, there is a new moniker for those who are struggling to get by   the families who are  just about managing .The prime minister minted the phrase that has become Whitehall s favourite new acronym in her . She pledged to strive for a country that worked for everyone, empathising with those in precarious jobs, struggling to pay the mortgage, worried about the cost of living or anxious about getting their children into a good school.Politicians have known about the Jams and vied for their allegiance for years. and George Osborne donned a hard hit and a hi-vis jacket to praise and rub shoulders with those who uncomplainingly  got on with it .Philip Hammond, who has the responsibility of making good on the prime minister s promises, explained who the Jams were on his visit to   They are the people who work hard and don t feel they are sharing in the prosperity that economic growth is bringing to the country,  the chancellor said. Or, to put it more concisely, the ones who voted for .The referendum was a seminal moment, because the Jams turned out in their millions to vote for leave. Their living standards are lower than they were in the mid 2000s. Twenty years ago, a just managing family was twice as likely to own their own home as to rent. Today the reverse it true. Two-thirds of children in poverty live in homes where at least one adult is working. On 23 June, the Jams were on one side, the Darts   doing all right thanks   were on the other. The Jams live in a country that is just about managing. Courtesy of record-low interest rates, the Bank of England is just about managing to keep the economy going. Despite repeatedly missing its targets, the government is just about managing to convince the financial markets that the public finances are under control. Exports of services mean the UK is just about managing to disguise the fact that there has been a deficit in manufactured goods every year since 1982. The NHS is just about managing to cope with increased patient demand and the toughest run of financial settlements since it was founded in 1948.Fair play to the government. It has identified all the right problems. There are, indeed, far too many just about managing households. The reason is that Jamland is a country that invests too little, where productivity is poor and where Osborne s promised rebalancing of the economy towards manufacturing and exports simply has not happened. Jamland specialises in creating low-skill, low-pay, insecure jobs.May and her team have talked about the need for an industrial strategy, of the desirability of having workers and consumer representatives on company boards, of a budgetary  re-set  that will soften austerity and   most notably   of helping those who are just about managing.So far it has been just that. Talk. Wednesday, however, is when the talking stops. Hammond has the task both of bringing some short-term relief to the Jams while at the same time tackling the deep-seated problems of the economy so there are fewer Jams in the future. That is not going to be easy. For one thing, there are a lot of Jams out there spread thickly across the country. The estimates that there are 6 million working-age households on low to middle incomes concentrated in areas as diverse as Pendle in Lancashire, Sandwell in the West Midlands and North Devon. And there s more. Money is tight and will remain so. The government s target date for balancing the books continues to be pushed back. Hammond  and will announce on Wednesday that there will still be a chunky deficit in 2020. The economy has performed much more strongly since the EU referendum than many feared, but the deficit in the current financial year is still likely to be at least ?10bn to ?15bn higher than the ?55bn Osborne pencilled at his 2016 budget. The Office for Budget Responsibility, which compiles the government s economic and fiscal forecasts, will say on Wednesday that the uncertainty  is causing will put additional strain on the public finances.Osborne s plan to run a budget surplus required big cuts in the welfare budget. One way of saving money was to freeze working-age benefits such as tax credits for the duration of the parliament, which meant their value would be eroded by inflation. The fall in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote means inflation is now going to be higher than expected, with the Bank of England predicting it will hit 3% by early 2018. The Jams rely on tax credits to top up their wages, so they could do with some help from the chancellor. He gave little indication, however, on the Marr show that he had much to offer.Noting that the economy was likely to slow next year, he talked about the  eye-watering level of debt , the need to maintain  credibility  and his desire to make the economy  match fit  for the challenges and the opportunities ahead. The challenges were highlighted last week by the left-leaning  thinktank, which announced a two-year commission designed to come up with solutions to Britain s structural economic weaknesses. Six were identified   under-investment, a chronic trade deficit, poor public finances, too many Jams, the concentration of income and wealth in the south-east, and the failure to hit carbon reduction targets. Brexit forces us to face up to the diagnosis,  the IPPR said.  We have an economy that is not delivering what it should for the British people. The paradox of the Brexit vote   a mandate for change that may make change harder to achieve   requires a far-reaching response. It has taken decades for Britain to become Jamland. A cash-strapped Hammond is not going to come up with all the answers. Freezes to fuel duties, more generous childcare subsidies and money for road improvements represent tinkering rather than a fundamental shift in policy.What does that mean? It means the scope for disappointment is high. The prime minister may wake up on Thursday morning to find herself portrayed as the White Queen in Alice through the looking glass   .															