Barclaycard and the British Retail Consortium have warned that a spurt in spending in April was the result of the late timing of Easter and said the growing squeeze on incomes meant the underlying trend in high street activity was weak.The two surveys found that rising inflation had resulted in consumers devoting an increasingly share of their pay packets on household essentials.Barclaycard said consumer spending was 5.5% up on April 2016 but added that the increase was mainly driven by supermarkets and petrol stations. It said spending on these essentials was up more than 11% year on year, the fastest rate of growth since it began releasing consumer spending data in 2012.Paul Lockstone, managing director at Barclaycard, said:  A late Easter and rising prices provided a superficial boost to spending in April, but behind the headline figure it s clear consumers are recognising and responding to the inflationary pressures being placed on household budgets. Despite growth across a number of categories, the spending picture in real terms is one of growing caution, as seen by declining confidence levels amongst the UK s consumers. Consumer spending was boosted by the sharp fall in oil and other commodity prices in 2014 and 2015, which raised the real value of incomes by pushing the annual inflation rate to zero.But this trend has been reversed since the summer of 2016 through a combination of a rebound in oil prices and the rising cost of imports caused by the post-Brexit referendum drop in the value of the pound.Inflation has risen from 0.6% to 2.3% and is now running at the same level as the annual growth in average earnings. Further increases in inflation are expected over the coming months, despite the recovery in sterling against the US dollar from just above $1.20 to just below $1.30.Other recent data have indicated that consumers are no longer spending as freely as in the second half of 2016. , , while the  and have now fallen  3,000 from the peak reached last December.The latest data for consumer spending and the housing market comes ahead of the Bank of England s interest-rate setting meeting on Thursday. Threadneedle Street is expected to leave borrowing costs on hold at 0.25%.The BRC s chief executive, Helen Dickinson, said the 6.3% rise in sales reported by her organisation was distorted by the timing of Easter. As expected, the Easter holidays provided the welcome boost to retail sales, which goes some way to making up for the disappointing start to the year. That said, the positive distortion from the timing of Easter was largely responsible for the month s growth and looking to the longer-term signs of a slowdown, the outlook isn t as rosy. Taking a closer look at the sales figures, consumer spend on food and non-food items is diverging. Food categories continue to contribute the most weight to overall growth, although food inflation has a part to play in this. Meanwhile, consumers are being more cautious in their spending towards non-food products and focusing more on value-priced lines. Dickinson said that life was set to become more difficult in the high street, adding that Theresa May should make consumers a priority as she negotiates Britain s exit from the EU. Although today s figures do indicate that consumers are still willing to spend, with a cocktail of rising costs and slowing wage growth as the backdrop, conditions for consumers will get tougher. The next government needs to deliver a plan that puts consumers first in its economic policies and the forthcoming Brexit negotiations. 