ast week s  and unrest at Hull was not the only bad news for the prison service this year   2016 has also seen a  behind bars, unprecedented levels of serious assaults and self-harm,  and a . If you don t have safety, order and control in prisons you have nothing,  says Ian Acheson, 48, a former prison governor who earlier this year undertook the  in UK prisons. Acheson lays the blame for the crisis in our prison system firmly at the door of government. Since 2010, there has been a , and there were  in 2016 alone. They should admit they got it wrong   that they cut frontline staff too far; that they understand that some of the consequences of those cuts have been this collapse in prison safety,  Acheson says.The justice secretary, , last month announced the recruitment of an extra  to tackle violence. But, says Acheson,  there ought to be a bit of humility from the government. It needs to accept the policy of removing so many staff was disastrous. During Acheson s review of radicalisation in jails   commissioned by the then justice secretary,    he visited dozens of prisons in Britain and abroad, and concluded that the rise of  was a  serious threat to national security .Recommendations included isolating those prisoners identified as presenting an  enduring risk to national security  in special units    prisons within prisons    away from the general prisoner population, as well as providing staff training,  with particular emphasis on distinguishing religious from cultural traditions . These measures have both since been adopted by government.Acheson insists that the separated regime accepted by the UK government differs fundamentally from the , which is now being abandoned, where prisoners deemed to be inspired by Islamic extremism were semi-segregated.  The conditions were extremely primitive, even by the poor standards we now see in UK prisons,  he says.  We envisaged a very small number of these prisoners being completely isolated in purpose-built units, where what I would call  enlightened  separation occurs. These units should offer individualised treatment plans by highly trained staff   and the emphasis should be on humanising relationships between staff and prisoner to change their mindset. But surely you can t contain or isolate an idea?  No. But you need to at least produce an alternative narrative   a counter narrative,  Acheson says. He suspects, however, that staff fear being accused of racism if they attempt to confront the problem. There is a legal obligation for institutions like prisons to promote . I don t have any problem at all with British values, such as democracy, the rule of law and tolerance. When I was conducting my review, and spoke to people at senior level in the prison service about these values, some of them looked at me almost with disdain. One of them even said,  perhaps we d call them European values . That was one example of a cultural mindset that I observed in relation to Islamic extremism. There was what I call an institutional timidity, an unwillingness of the institution to directly confront this problem. He believes that the 12,500 Muslims in prison in England are probably most at risk from the threat of Islamic extremism.  They have mothers and daughters and sons and fathers outside, worrying about them being at risk in prison. But the prison service has frankly been asleep for the last six years in terms of understanding the nature and the extent of this problem, despite all of the evidence available to them to do something about it. But it went into the  too difficult  box. If I was in prison I d be making pragmatic decisions about my own safety; if there was a dominant gang that offered me protection, I would join them. There is no reason why the same principles of separation cannot apply to other extremists, Acheson believes, such as those peddling far-right views.  We cannot allow extremism of any kind to flourish in prisons,  he states.For Acheson, however, anti-extremism training and separation have all been eclipsed by what he calls  the order and control crisis . Short term we have to get stability back in prisons,  he says.  To borrow from the Iraq war, we need a  surge  of staff into disordered prisons to restore control and get a decent regime going. Longer term, staff training needs a complete overhaul to equip them properly for the task of  and characteristics. Over the six months that he and his team took evidence from staff, experts and former prisoners, he says he found staff who were on the edge.  I ve seen scared staff, spoken to scared staff. Being in some prisons where you expect there to be control and seeing that there really isn t any is something.  He says a way to lift morale would be to put prison governors in uniform.  The artificial distinction between management and shop floor has created a  them and us  culture which must be ended,  he says. And the quality of the uniforms should be improved.  At the moment staff look like employees of a budget airline as opposed to professionals in a vital uniformed public service. Is there any hope that our prisons are ever going to work?  Prison does work because it incapacitates people who have committed crime. But if it s only for that purpose, it will fail.  As a young prison officer in the 1990s, Acheson says he saw at  (the only therapeutic prison in the UK) what happens when you give people even a small degree of autonomy.  I ve always believed that prisons ought to be places where we help people . I think a very small number of people are irredeemably broken, who frankly need to be contained   and society needs to be protected from them. But the vast majority need help. It is important to get services to people who are in need, to help them help themselves, but also to prevent them from creating any more victims. He says it s about time prisoners were given , paid the minimum wage and had a personal training and education voucher to let them select the training required for meaningful employment after release. And there should be a dramatic increase in in-cell access to remote learning and skills providers via a secure intranet.Acheson says he loved working in prisons for nine years.  Being a prison officer is the career I am most proud of in my life. It was the making of me,  he explains.  I ve always thought that prisons were places of possibility. In the 1990s there were lots of hopeful things happening. There was optimism. But if we want to solve the prison safety crisis we have now, we have to change the ratios. Either society decides that it has to have more prison officers, or fewer prisoners.  48 Dartmoor Married, two children Portora Royal school, Enniskillen; University of Durham 2015-present: director of security programmes, Sampson Hall Ltd; 2012-14: chief operating officer, Equality and Human Rights Commission; 2009-12: senior civil servant at Home Office; 2003-09: head of region Youth Justice Board; 2001-03: executive director, Prisoners  Abroad; 1992-2001: governor HM Prison Service (graduate accelerated promotion scheme from an officer at HMP Grendon, to principal officer HMP Durham, head of security HMP Wandsworth, deputy and then acting governor HMP Erlestoke, and finally director of research and planning at HMP Dartmoor). 2014-15, led independent review of Islamist extremism in prisons and probation, ordered by the then secretary of state, Michael Gove. Hill walking, poetry