As senior representatives for modern languages in the UK, we are surprised and disturbed to hear that the University of Manchester plans to cut 35 posts in its School of arts, languages and cultures, alongside further jobs in business and in biology, medicine and health. Staff in German, French, Italian, Hebrew and Spanish have been told that their jobs are  at risk  because these areas supposedly recruit fewer and lower quality students than the Russell Group tariff average. We have not seen hard evidence of this claim; we do know that modern languages at Manchester have a stellar reputation nationally and internationally, and that the areas targeted for radical reduction have excellent student ratings for teaching quality as well as very significant research power. Recent harsh marking in modern languages A-levels has led to a mistaken perception of applicants as being of  lower quality ; and at a time when there is a clear need to stimulate recruitment for modern languages across higher education, we urge the university to address the issue positively and proactively in the context of a proven and urgent need for graduates with languages in the UK (see, for example, the  and  reports).It is worth recalling that over  3m has been awarded to Manchester precisely to support and encourage research in modern languages 2016-2020. The university signed a letter of support for modern languages which was received by the Arts and Humanities Research Council in connection with Manchester s Open World Research Initiative (OWRI) application in 2015.A proposal to shed linguists and cross-cultural experts is clearly against the best interests of the UK, now more than ever as we face the economic and societal complexities of leaving the EU. If it pushes through its plans regardless, the  will in the medium and longer term do the UK a great disservice. In the short term it will send a powerful and ill-timed signal about the perception of the value of European languages and cultures.The university states that its plan is to  enhance the student and staff experience and improve research . That seems an unlikely outcome of these cuts. Students of Manchester University are already expressing their profound concern, via (among other things) a  and a . We share their concern, and urge the university to reconsider.         