As Donald Trump prepares to move into the White House, you may still be wondering how the billionaire Republican managed to win the US election while simultaneously promising  and claiming to be on the side of workers.Academics in Scandinavia think they may have the explanation. It comes down to how far Americans are happy to accept inequality. by behavioural economists at the  and  found people in the US were far more prepared to accept inequality and less willing to try to redress it than Norwegians. They conducted an experiment where  spectators    1,000 from the US and 1,000 from    were asked to decide how  workers  should be paid for tasks they had completed online. The researchers recruited the 1,334 workers on an online jobs marketplace where people can pay others for one-off tasks such as setting up a website or translating some text.In this case, workers were told they would get a $2 participation fee for doing sentence unscrambling tasks and a code recognition exercise asking them to spot occurrences of a particular number in a grid. Together they took around 20 minutes.Workers were then paired, giving groups of  worker A  and  worker B . In order to assess the relative acceptance of inequality of people in the US and Norwegians, the spectators were asked to decide how a bonus should be shared between the pair of workers under three different scenarios. The bonus was in addition to the participation fee.In the , the researchers wanted to assess how people reacted to inequality that stemmed from . Spectators were told that worker A and worker B did work of the same quality but that in a lottery it had been randomly decided the entire $6 earnings bonus would go to worker A. The spectators were asked if they would like to leave things as they were or redistribute the bonus between the two workers.The researchers  findings were striking.  In this  luck  treatment, we want to see if people see the initial source of inequality as unfair or not,  said one of the authors,  at the Norwegian School of Economics. Americans are much, much more likely to say in the same situation:  Well, good for you, we ll leave it as is. Applying the findings to Trump s victory, Tungodden said:  Americans voted for a candidate that promised to  when the country faces historically high levels of inequality. This is surprising from a European perspective, but our study shows that Americans are much more likely than Scandinavians to consider an inequality as fair, even in cases where inequality is caused by brute luck.  Under the , the researchers wanted to measure how people reacted to . The spectators were told that one worker got the bonus because he or she had done better work. The spectators were then asked if they wanted to leave things that way or redistribute the bonus.In this case,  We found that the source of inequality mattered enormously. As soon as it s linked to performance, people are very ready to accept inequality and this happens in both the countries,  said Tungodden.The economist said the result should help to bust some myths about the nature of redistribution in Norway and neighbouring countries.  People don t appreciate enough that there is a merit element in the Nordic welfare state. Finally, in the , the researchers wanted to test how people felt about . Spectators were told worker A and worker B had done the same quality of work but that one had been given the entire $6 bonus in a lottery. The spectators were told they could leave things as they were or share out the bonus, but that the total bonus would shrink if it was shared. For example, worker A would get $2 and worker B $2.In this case, the results were the same as under the luck scenario. In other words, a large proportion of Norwegians still wanted to equalise the earnings between the two workers despite that redistribution coming at a cost. So , said Tungodden. Absolutely nothing changes,  he said.  People in general are not that focused on the cost of redistribution. Tungodden saw lessons in that finding for politicians in the UK who campaigned for remain in the EU referendum by warning about the potential costs of leaving the bloc, in what became known as  project fear . Many people were motivated to vote leave because of unfairness, said Tungodden.  People [in the remain camp] argued there were a lot of gains from not exiting the EU but voters were concerned with the fairness aspect, not the cost.  (pdf)