anada s prime minister is a . Two years ago, Justin Trudeau s appointment of the country s  made headlines worldwide. Recently, his government has released what has been called the  first  .But now Canada s own record on gender equality has been called into question by a perhaps unlikely source. The McKinsey Global Institute, a research arm of the corporate consultancy giant, has declared that the country s workplaces have a  substantial gender gap . In a , it describes tackling enduring gender inequalities at work as  a considerable economic opportunity  for Canada, which it predicts could add upwards of $150bn to the country s GDP by 2026. McKinsey s Tiffany Vogel  that gender equality is  not just a moral imperative [and] not just the right thing to do   it s good business practice .Recent  shows that for every $1 a man makes, on average a woman makes $0.74   in part because women are disproportionately represented in low-wage jobs, including in fast food and hotel work.A    most of whom are women   found that men earn more across all job categories, and are more likely to be offered full-time jobs or employed as managers. The gender issue pervades all levels of business: . McKinsey surveyed 69 of Canada s largest companies and found that fewer women were being promoted. Among these companies, women make up 45% of entry-level workers, 25% of vice-presidents and 15% of CEOs.  The gender pay gap persists in all types of occupations, even when women are in higher-paying jobs,  said Trish Hennessy, a director at the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives (CCPA) thinktank. Pay gaps are particularly pronounced for immigrants and indigenous women, she added.Hennessy said one way to close these gaps is to  revalue the caring work that women do    referring to unpaid work at home, caring for family members, and paid work including in early childhood education.  Unionisation helps, too,  she said.  The gender pay gap is   unions can be a great equaliser.  Last year, Canada also fell down in the World Economic Forum s global gender equality rankings, . In 1995, it was in first place. Armine Yalnizyan, a Canadian economist and business commentator, said that while gender inequality at work is a national problem,  there are huge variations across the country . For instance, she said the Saskatchewan province appears more equal than neighbouring Alberta, which has larger pay gaps. These gaps are falling among young people, she said,  but they re nowhere near closed. It s people that don t have more than high-school [education] that see the biggest wage gap between women and men. Yalnizyan said higher minimum wages  would affect way more women than men, and would begin to compress wages . She also described increasing access to childcare and early childhood education as a  virtuous cycle , enabling more women to work while also creating jobs.The McKinsey report says tackling these gender inequalities could lead to  re-energising Canada s economy and its businesses . It says GDP growth has slowed to approximately 2% a year, and that  a significant part of the solution is for  to tap into the vast, unrealised potential of women .Gender inequality at work is not a uniquely Canadian problem. , women make less than $0.80 for every $1 that men do. In the UK, the gender pay gap is .Globally, estimates suggest that just . In , a potential employer can legally ask about a woman s children or marital status at a job interview   while in more than a dozen states, husbands can prevent their wives from accepting jobs. It has become something of a zeitgeist argument to describe gender equality as  . Last year,  it is in companies  interests to promote women up their ranks, and that tackling gender inequality could add  10tn to the world economy. The Economist has printed stories with headlines such as  . Women executives have called for others to  , and there have been campaigns for more women in boardrooms and MBA programmes.In Canada, McKinsey s report argues, more women need to get into managerial roles,  high-productivity  sectors such as oil, mining and technology, or become entrepreneurs. Companies need to do more to promote women  through the corporate pipeline . say 82% of women aged 25-54 were working, or looking for work, in 2015   compared to 21% in 1950, and 63% in 1983. Canadian women university graduates outnumber men with these degrees   yet women are overrepresented in lower-paid jobs and are more likely to work part-time, juggling unpaid child care and other responsibilities at home. Hennessy said that Canadian women are more educated than ever, and are already  contributing to economic growth   but as long as the gender pay gap persists, the revolution remains unfinished .She added:  Pay matters, but so do working conditions. Many jobs that women work in are precarious: hours are part-time or casual, they don t have benefits or pensions. That means the gender pay gap follows them all the way to retirement. Canada also has a broader economic inequality problem. In January, an Oxfam report found that . Lauren Ravon, policy director at Oxfam Canada, said the situation of low-income women has been a  blind spot  in discussions about gender inequality at work, which tend to focus on entrepreneurship, leadership, corporate boards and senior executives. The reality, she added, is that much  economic opportunity  for women is in the lowest-paid jobs. We need to have a society where we value the work that women have traditionally done: education, childcare, healthcare,  Ravon said. She expects  a huge increase in home-based care in the future , as Canada s population ages.The Trudeau government recently announced it would perform  of its budgetary measures, in order to  deliver real and meaningful change for all Canadians . It has also , though it has been  for delaying this until 2018.At the CCPA thinktank, Hennessy said:  Why not take inspiration from Iceland, which has committed to a plan to? Set a goal. Set a timeline. Work the plan and make it happen. 