A proposal from the boss of the AA for drivers to receive an annual  road miles  allowance is among the ideas shortlisted for a  250,000 competition to find new ways of funding the UK road network. , the president of the motoring organisation, has appeared on a shortlist of five entries to win the , this year awarded for ideas on how to fund better, more reliable roads.The submission, authored jointly with his wife, the business analyst Deirdre King, envisages a future where drivers receive an annual allowance of  road miles . As well as trading them, drivers could pay for the right to travel further by entering auctions or lotteries, which would raise more income to maintain the network. Other ideas include allowing companies to name roads after themselves as an incentive for them to ensure they are pothole-free.Additional road miles would be granted to drivers with special needs and those with the cleanest, greenest vehicles, King said.  It s a way of giving free access to the road network but safeguarding further revenues rather than introducing a nationwide charging system that would be political suicide,  he said.The Kings are joined on the shortlist by an eclectic mix of transport planners from Australia, a Hungarian graduate and a stay-at-home mother who is expecting her third child imminently. Sir John Kingman, the chairman of the judging panel, said that the hundred-plus entries, which were submitted anonymously to judges including the former Labour chancellor and transport secretary Alistair Darling, contained some  quite funky ideas , with a Harvard professor among those who had just failed to make the cut.He said the best entrants had thought deeply about the imminent technological future of , as well as the problem of how to fund roads with . Kingman said:  The problem of congestion is very real right now. Motorists are understandably discontented and the existing ways of paying for roads are broken. What we need is a politically viable solution which is popular and the public can see is good for them. This is one of the great unsolved policy problems that has plagued British debates for a long time.   by the Institute of Fiscal Studies for the RAC Foundation forecast that Treasury revenues from motorists are due to drop by more than a third to  25bn by the end of the next decade, making a  250,000 award seem cheap at the price. King said they were not counting any chickens at this stage, but admitted:  An electric car, a Tesla, would be nice. The winner of the prize will be announced in July. 