A hotly contested race for one of Westminster s most coveted jobs enters its final stages this weekend as six Conservatives battle to run the powerful Treasury select committee.Once seen as a consolation prize for MPs passed over for a cabinet seat, since the financial crisis of 2008 the occupant has become better known   and arguably more influential   than many ministers.The last chairman, Andrew Tyrie, won a reputation as Westminster s inquisitor general after his relentless grillings of Mark Carney, Philip Hammond, government officials and countless bank bosses.Tyrie would have been a shoo-in had he not quit as an MP at the election. His retirement created an unexpected vacancy for a battle that ahead of a ballot in which all MPs can vote looks too hard to call.Tyrie held memorable sessions that forced , the drug-taking former chairman of Co-op Bank, to admit he didn t know the size of the bank s balance sheet and  to resign as deputy governor of the Bank of England for failing to disclose her brother s senior role at Barclays.The prestigious nature of the job is illustrated by the list of candidates   such as Nicky Morgan, sacked as education secretary by Theresa May, and two MPs who sat on the committee under Tyrie s chairmanship. is hoping to win the backing of Labour, Liberal Democrat and SNP members for her soft Brexit approach.Another high-profile contender is Jacob Rees-Mogg, who has sought to reach out to opposition MPs by saying he would not use the chair as a megaphone for his pro-Brexit views.The ballot is on Wednesday and the winner should be announced that evening or the following day. Here are their pitches   and the issues they say are their main concerns.The only candidate with cabinet experience and a former City solicitor, Morgan says she has proved her independence since losing her job as education secretary, especially over . One Labour MP said Morgan would get support from opposition parties. She would be the first woman in the post.Ensuring full parliamentary scrutiny of Brexit. Public sector pay. A focus on the wider economy and not just the City. Seen as one of the frontrunners.In terms of high public profile, Rees-Mogg rivals Morgan. The tussles between him and Carney were among the highlights of the committee s proceedings in the last parliament, with the Somerset MP accusing the Bank governor of  political partisanship  because of his dire warnings over Brexit. But Rees-Mogg   who is still working in City fund management   insists that he would not use the chair for anti-Europe sermonising, leaving that to the Brexit committee. His aim, he says, would be to  achieve consensus and balance . Holding Hammond and Carney to account. Brexit   in a non-partisan way. The failings of the banks, particularly in customer service. Another frontrunner, but he will need to win some opposition support.The MP for Weston-super-Mare has already had one of his ideas   the creation of a UK sovereign wealth fund   included in the Conservative manifesto. The Treasury committee, he says, should be at the centre of the  new and changing debate about the kind of post-Brexit economy we want to have . Married to Dido Harding   the former chief executive of TalkTalk who sits on the court of the    he has pledged to show there is no conflict of interest. Moving the economic debate on from Brexit. Looking at the new divides in Britain: between those who own assets and those who don t, and between the young and the old.Dark horse.A former tax lawyer, Elphicke would like the committee to conduct a root-and-branch investigation of the tax system.  It makes people rightly angry when large businesses pay less in tax than the person cleaning their offices,  he says. He is also eager to make sure that poorer people can have access to local banks. Cracking down on tax avoidance by multinationals. Ensuring growth is spread more evenly across the country. Getting young people on the housing ladder. Brexit preparations for the Treasury.Will hope his views on tax and fairness will win the support of opposition MPs.One of the less well-known candidates, Bacon has been MP for South Norfolk since 2001. He is playing up his credentials as an experienced committee hand, and has the backing of some high-profile Labour MPs.  I would adopt a collegiate approach, taking account of the interests of all committee members,  he says. Public finances, ensuring growth is better balanced, and the UK s productivity puzzle. Although he is a trained economist with cross-party support, he would be a surprise winner.Another experienced contender, Hammond has been the MP for Wimbledon for 12 years. A member of the committee in the last parliament, Hammond had previously worked in the City for 20 years. As a former transport minister, he would want to see the government s proposed increased spending on infrastructure benefiting all parts of the country. Scrutinising Brexit. The lack of competition in personal banking. Opening up the committee so that any MP can suggest subjects for investigation.A quietly effective member in the last parliament, Hammond may lack cross-party support.