A former senior Treasury mandarin has compared  to heroin and called for an end to almost a decade of electronic money printing by central banks. Nick Macpherson was permanent secretary to the Treasury when  officials started buying UK government bonds to stimulate the economy following the financial crisis. On Monday, he said it was  time to move on  from QE, which is credited with helping Britain into recovery but remains in use nine years later amid concerns over Brexit.Threadneedle Street initially began pumping  200bn into the gilt market in 2009 to boost the economy, before expanding the programme to  435bn, including an extra  60bn following the EU referendum. The bond buying scheme is similar to massive stimulus packages used by other countries, such as the US Federal Reserve s $4.5tn of asset purchases ( 3.5tn) and the European Central Bank s  2.3tn ( 2.1tn) plan. Lord Macpherson s call comes as  in a process known as  normalisation  almost a decade on from the crash. Some indications could be given at a meeting of senior officials at Jackson Hole in the US later this week. Mario Draghi, the ECB governor, is expected to be the star turn at the event watched by global investors, although he is not thought to be preparing to announce the end of QE just yet.While QE is credited with lowering borrowing costs and helping banks to lend more to consumers and businesses, critics say such schemes inflate assets owned by the richest in society, while punishing savers without large amounts of wealth. Macpherson did not single out the specific bond-buying programme of a particular central bank.  he wrote on Twitter. The former senior civil servant was writing in response to George Osborne s former adviser Rupert Harrison, now a fund manager at BlackRock, who had tweeted a link to a In another reply to Harrison s tweet, he appeared to suggest that QE was a  policy which is yielding diminishing returns . Harrison said people are  waking up to the impending ECB slow-motion car crash  and that there were  political constraints on eurozone monetary policy starting to bite once again .