 Long live Wallonix,  , the French newspaper and standard-bearer for the left, showing its support for the Belgian region of Wallonia, after it stopped Europe from signing a massive trade deal with Canada.Borrowing from the French cartoon ,Lib ration depicted Wallonia as plucky Gaul holding out against Pax Canada. Three days after the Lib ration front page, and following further negotiations, Wallonia s parliament voted in favour of the trade deal with Canada on Friday. Wallonia s leader, Paul Magnette, declared that the region had won  a better treaty .There are still several more chapters in the stop-start drama over the European Union s comprehensive economic and trade agreement (Ceta) with . The lifting of the Walloon veto clears the way for 28 EU governments to sign the treaty, allowing it to come into force on a temporary basis.But 38 national and regional assemblies will have the final say on whether the treaty becomes a permanent legal document. It is a story that is likely to have implications for EU trade policy, but also for post-Brexit Britain. This Ceta saga has illustrated an additional layer of complexity that the UK will have to deal with,  said Lourdes Catrain, a partner at law firm Hogan Lovells. Wallonia , declaring it had secured important safeguards.  The standards that we have in Ceta will become the norms for all future international trade treaties,  Magnette told Belgian television. He declared that  TTIP is dead , referring to a parallel trade deal the EU is negotiating with the US.Not everyone shares his views. Belgium s prime minister, Charles Michel, said  not a comma had changed  in the 1,598-page trade treaty with Canada.After days of negotiations, Belgian representatives from the federal government and the country s five regional parliaments agreed on a four-page text to interpret the treaty. A  shows what the Belgians agreed: for instance, the trade treaty would not change EU law, which restricts cultivation of most genetically modified crops.Belgian authorities have pledged to monitor socio-economic and environmental impacts of Ceta.  There are no substantial changes,  said Guillaume van der Loo, a trade expert at the Centre for European Policy Studies, although he did single out one point.  will ask the European court of justice to deliver a verdict on whether a new system of specially created investor courts proposed under Ceta is compatible with EU law.The fact that senior EU diplomats approved the Belgian text in a hastily convened meeting on Thursday suggests that national governments do not see important changes to a treaty that was seven years in the making.However, Kathleen van Brempt, a Belgian socialist MEP, argues that the important change is political not technical.  What we might call a small crisis in Belgium relates very much to the way the  works and the way we deal with these sort of treaties.  She is convinced that the EU will change how it does trade policy, leading to greater openness and transparency.In some ways, Ceta was a typical EU story: a tortuous  will they won t they  wrangle that ends with a feverish round of meetings and a legal document.It was also a very Belgian story. Magnette and his socialist party are under pressure from the hard-left Maoist-leaning Workers  party of Belgium that is making inroads into Wallonia, a region of above-average unemployment. Magnette, supported by centre-right Christian Democrats, has genuine objections to Ceta, says Dave Sinardet, professor at the Free University of Brussels. But his tactics also helped to put Wallonia s Parti Socialiste back on the map,  certainly among leftwing voters who have felt the PS was too pragmatic, too centrist and not a real leftwing party anymore . Meanwhile, according to one EU diplomat, EU leaders meeting at a summit last week expressed frustration that the Belgian prime minister, a liberal, could not do more to fix up a deal with the socialists in Wallonia.If it had not been Wallonia, it could have been somewhere else. German judges and Austrian MPs have raised concerns about Ceta in recent months; Romania and Bulgaria threatened to veto the treaty to secure visa-free travel to Canada for their citizens. The Dutch government warned on Friday that it may have to veto a trade deal with Ukraine following a , rather than the specifics of the bilateral treaty.The drawn-out cliffhanger over Ceta and the Dutch problem over Ukraine have prompted recriminations about how the EU manages trade negotiations. Some say the commission blundered by allowing the member states a veto over trade agreements, instead of relying on the older method of a qualified-majority vote.The commission blames member state governments for not doing enough to sell trade deals to an increasingly sceptical public. Speaking before the Ceta crisis blew up, the EU trade commissioner, Cecilia Malmstr m, said countries  are queuing up to negotiate with us , but were asking questions.  Is it worth it? Is it worth negotiating with an EU that can t deliver? Member states have to put themselves into that question. Do we want trade agreements or not? In a phrase that would be repeated by exasperated EU leaders, she said:  If we fail with Ceta, with Canada, the closest country to us all, the most European, one of the most democratic, least corrupt countries in the world   if we can t make a trade agreement with Canada, then who can we trade with?  Britain is one answer, although probably not the country the commission has in mind, as it pursues trade deals with Japan and the US. The Conservative government wants to secure a trade agreement with the EU as soon as possible.Liam Fox, the secretary of state for international trade, this week called on the EU to agree a trade deal before the UK leaves the bloc. That would mean negotiating a trade agreement in parallel with the separate article 50 divorce procedure to disentangle the UK from the EU institutions. Such a rapid timetable leaves legal experts wincing.  Negotiating both the withdrawal agreement and the framework is a herculean task,  said Catrain.  On the withdrawal agreement [alone], even two years is very tight. She advises the British government to engage with EU member states and regional parliaments if they want a trade deal.The British government is wary of parallels with Canada, although a government source acknowledged that Ceta showed  if we do end up in a world of an FTA [free trade agreement] outside the EU it isn t going to be terribly easy . But the source rejected  slightly spurious analogies  with Canada.  Far from a free trade deal demolishing existing barriers, as with Canada, [the UK would be] in some ways erecting barriers that used not to be there, so it is a very different process. Moreover, any trade deal with the UK would be closely watched by EU governments. During the Canadian negotiations, the commission had free rein to negotiate the fine points on protection of Roquefort cheese or competition for maritime services, with relatively little oversight from governments. Any Brexit trade deal will be political from day one. Each member state will fight for its own interests.The UK will need to meet the concerns of all EU countries, stresses Van der Loo.  Member states are no longer reluctant to put their foot in the door and stop an agreement in order to gain what they want.  