 will deliver his spring budget against the backdrop of a weak pound, rising inflation and growing worries about a squeeze on households.The chancellor is expected to unveil a brighter outlook for growth than at the time of his autumn statement in November. The public finances are also looking in better shape. But with the UK poised to trigger article 50, Hammond has indicated he  to help weather Brexit uncertainties. Here are six key charts to consider before he delivers his budget at about 12.30pm.The economy defied people who had predicted a downturn in the wake of the Brexit vote and instead ended 2016 with . That is likely to put Hammond in the welcome position of announcing a brighter outlook for 2017 growth when he unveils the latest forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) in his budget speech. In November, the OBR forecast the economy would grow 1.4% in 2017 and economists say it could nudge that up to reflect the strong momentum at the end of last year.The UK s economy was one of the fastest growing in the G7 group of leading industrial countries in 2016. But economic forecasters say rising inflation and Brexit uncertainty are expected to dent growth this year, knocking the UK down the rankings.  from the leading thinktank the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) see UK growth slowing to just 1% in 2018. That would be the weakest performance since the depths of the global financial crisis in 2009. Note:  when not adjusting for the number of working days. At the time of November s autumn statement, the OBR was warning that a Brexit blow to the economy would . Less than four months on, healthy tax receipts mean  to fund its spending over this financial year. Economists also believe . The pound  and also tumbled against the euro. It has been buffeted over recent months by political signals that the UK is heading for a hard Brexit. More recently, the UK currency has come under renewed pressure from signs the economy is weakening, suggesting interest rates will be at their record low for the foreseeable future. Compared with the night of June s referendum, the pound is down 18% against the dollar and almost 12% against the euro.The pound s weakness is making imports to the UK   such as food ingredients and metals   more expensive.  in the shops and . Meanwhile, , raising . Surveys show consumers are worried about their finances as higher inflation bites and as economic uncertainty stemming from Brexit negotiations threatens to ripple into the jobs market. Their caution appears to have translated into weaker spending and official figures show , bringing a long period of sustained growth to an abrupt end.