 The chancellor, George Osborne, springs a surprise on the City by announcing that Canada s central bank chief  as governor of the Bank of England. is the first non-Briton to become Bank governor. He is largely unknown outside the cloistered circles of central bankers and financial regulators, but has gained a reputation as a tough operator able to confront the banks at the heart of the financial crisis. It emerges that Carney will , taking his total pay package to  874,000 a year when he takes the reins in summer 2013. Carney takes over from King. On his first day, he .Carney unveils a , under which policymakers  until unemployment declines to 7% (from 7.8%). The Bank s forecast puts unemployment above 7% in 2016.The scheme is . Carney  in an attempt to prevent five years of ultra-low interest rates and Osborne s help-to-buy scheme from fuelling a housing bubble. Carney announces that Britain will  from 2016, ending 320 years of paper money. The Bank says it , as it prefers to call them, starting with a  5 note featuring Winston Churchill in 2016 and a Jane Austen  10 note a year later. The move follows Carney s native Canada, where plastic notes are being rolled out. Six months after forward guidance was launched, the unemployment rate has dropped below 7%   two years earlier than the Bank had been expecting. However, Carney signals that the Bank will  of 0.5% for at least another year and says policymakers  will not take risks with this recovery . He also insists that  forward guidance is working . Carney warns that the housing market poses the  as a shortage of new homes drives up prices. The Bank is given powers to . Carney says interest rates are likely to rise before the end of 2014.Later this month, members of the Treasury select committee accuse the Bank of behaving like an  unreliable boyfriend , giving mixed messages on when the first rise in interest rates is likely.  warns workers that they face higher interest rates in spring 2015, before real wages rise. The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government is replaced by a Conservative government. The former was the first administration in more than half a century to  for its entire term. In the first announcement from the Bank under the new government, .The Bank governor says an interest rate rise in the UK . Later this month, Carney suggests the first interest rate rise since the global financial crash could come . The Bank is ready to  if a prolonged period of record-low interest rates risks inflating a property bubble, Carney says. As he signals that interest rates are likely to remain on hold well into 2016, Carney suggests that the Bank may have to revert to other measures, such as tighter lending rules, to keep a lid on house prices. Carney says policymakers in the UK  if necessary, but would seek to avoid following Sweden, Denmark and the eurozone by setting negative rates to bolster growth and inflation. on the Treasury select committee, Carney says the world economy has entered a period of low growth and low interest rates and is likely to be prone to financial shocks.  The UK marks seven years of record-low interest rates. Research marking the anniversary claims that rock-bottom borrowing costs and quantitative easing (QE) have , but supported strong increases in the prices of property, stocks and bonds.In its analysis, financial services company Hargreaves Lansdown suggests that loose monetary policy has  annihilated  returns on cash. Carney tells MPs that the referendum on EU membership is the  Later this month, the Bank s financial policy committee warns that a leave vote risks causing a run on sterling, a credit crunch and higher interest rates for mortgage payers and businesses. The Bank repeats a warning that a  and have a serious impact on the pound and other UK assets. This chimes with earlier comments from the International Monetary Fund that a British vote to leave the EU , spilling over into an already fragile global economy. Carney says the impact of current  in the fall in the number of commercial property transactions, while jittery markets had sent the pound down by 10% since the beginning of the year. The Bank warns for the first time that  in the aftermath of a vote to leave the EU. At a news conference to present the Bank s economic forecasts, Carney says there are a range of possible scenarios for the economy in the event of Brexit and these  could possibly include a technical recession    defined as two consecutive quarters of shrinking GDP.Carney s comments , with the Conservative energy minister Andrea Leadsom calling them an  incredibly dangerous intervention . Carney hits back by saying the Bank has a ,  who don t want risks kept from them . A week before the referendum, the Bank issues a fresh warning that a vote to leave the EU risks harming economic growth, pushing the pound sharply lower and sending shockwaves through the global economy. Announcing a decision to , the Bank says the vote is the biggest immediate risk to UK financial markets.The warning comes after Nigel Lawson, Norman Lamont, Michael Howard and Iain Duncan Smith write a Telegraph article accusing the Treasury and the Bank of a  woeful failure  to offer a fair analysis of what might happen in the event of Brexit. But the prime minister, David Cameron, , saying the leave campaign s criticism is  deeply concerning . As Britain wakes up to news of a leave vote, Carney  by insisting that Threadneedle Street will take any measures needed to secure economic and financial stability.In a statement choreographed to follow Cameron s announcement that he  as prime minister, Carney says contingency plans drawn up by the Bank and the Treasury . The governor draws praise in financial markets for his calm manner and timely comments, but worries grow over Osborne s silence. Carney  following the Brexit vote, saying the UK economy is showing signs of strain. The governor uses a speech to reassure business leaders and investors that the Bank s contingency plans are  working well  and it is considering further measures to safeguard financial stability.  The Bank warns of  challenging  risks to financial stability and takes steps to  to households and businesses by relaxing regulatory requirements on the banking sector. At a Treasury select committee hearing, Carney faces questions about whether  about the risks of a Brexit vote. Carney agrees to hand MPs notes of private meetings he had with the chancellor in the run-up to the EU referendum. At a scheduled policy meeting, the Bank , confounding City analysts, who had expected a collapse in business and consumer confidence to convince policymakers to support the economy and cut the cost of credit.However, the Bank puts households on notice that a rate cut is certain if the economic situation fails to improve over the next month. The  for the first time in more than seven years and expands its electronic money printing programme in a bigger than expected package of measures designed to prevent a post-Brexit vote recession. The move brings relief to borrowers, but angers savers, who have been getting low returns for years due to rock-bottom interest rates. The Bank s post-Brexit economic recovery plan  when it is unable to buy as many government bonds as it needs from major City investors. Threadneedle Street must get reluctant investors to part with government bonds, also known as gilts, in order to provide additional stimulus to the economy under its  60bn QE programme. Carney rejects claims that the Bank  after the Brexit vote, despite growing signs that the downturn will be shallow. Under fire from leave campaigners, the governor says he is  absolutely serene  about the Bank s warning of a possible downturn in economic growth and its preparations for the impact from the Brexit vote. But the Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg accuses Carney and the monetary policy committee of going too far in their warnings.The Bank leaves the door open to another interest rate cut this year, but decides that the safest option is to wait and see if the economy can continue to weather the initial shock of the Brexit vote. Carney reveals that his . He tells an audience of schoolchildren in Coventry that he likes Dairy Milk chocolate, dogs and the Specials   but not Craig David. Theresa May prompts questions about a rift between Carney and Downing Street after she  in her Conservative party conference speech, saying  people with assets had got richer, people without them had suffered . Carney backs the prime minister s call to  and rejects the idea that criticism of the side-effects of unconventional measures  on the independence of the Bank.Carney says:  I entirely agree with the spirit of what the prime minister said. I have long said that monetary policy has been overburdened. There needs to be a better balance of monetary policy, fiscal policy and structural policy.  Carney says the Bank  from politicians, a week after Theresa May took a swipe at the impact of the its actions on  ordinary  people. Speaking at Birmingham town hall as part of the Bank s Future Forum, Carney says it becomes difficult for Threadneedle Street when politicians comment on its policies rather than its objectives. Michael Gove becomes the latest senior Conservative to criticise the governor, accusing Carney of being intolerant of criticism and lacking in humility.Gove , whose  person was held to be inviolable and without imperfections  and whose critics were flayed alive.  (paywall), Gove says:  [Carney s] position is held to be independent and without any error. And so any criticism of his actions is regarded as a thought crime.  Carney indicates that an onslaught of criticism of his performance by the Conservative establishment will not influence  beyond 2018. Asked by a House of Lords committee whether high-level interference will force him to leave, the Bank s governor says he will not be swayed by political issues as he weighs up the option of departing in two years or extending his contract by a further three years to 2021.  Financial markets  from Carney as to when he will leave his post, following a barrage of criticism from Eurosceptic MPs about his approach to Brexit. An announcement is expected by Thursday, when the Bank next presents its economic forecasts. But sources say Carney is equally likely to delay the announcement until later in November and will take the decision .  Theresa May  and praises his efforts to steer the UK economy through the post-Brexit vote period during a Downing Street meeting.Finally, in a 6pm announcement, Carney ends weeks of speculation about his future  - adding an extra year to his original five year term. 