 said that the Great Depression of the 1930s was  the worst calamity that has befallen man since the Flood . Such pronouncements might be expected from the Vatican, but apocalyptic language became commonplace during the  devil s decade .The writer and critic  likened the crash of the US stock market in 1929 to  a rending of the Earth in preparation for the Day of Judgment . The economist  suggested that the world in the grip of the economic blizzard was entering a new dark age that would last a thousand years. The French premier  was one of many who compared the Depression to Armageddon, declaring that its effects were as traumatic as those of the first world war. The poet  described the army of unemployed as  the dead on leave .With the collapse of industries that had made Britain the workshop of the world   iron, steel, coal, textiles, shipbuilding   some parts of the country did appear to have experienced the ravages of war.In 1933,  found places in Northumberland and Durham that looked worse than towns he had seen in northern France that had suffered four years of German occupation. Tyneside was the epitome of dereliction, full of ruined factories, deserted warehouses, rusting cranes and decomposing ships. In Jarrow, starting point of the , 80% of the population lacked jobs and were subject to the tyranny of the means test and the hopelessness of the dole. The government designated such districts  special areas  but, wrote the novelist , they constituted  a new kind of social hell, with nothing special about it except the demoralisation of a whole people, physical and moral .Yet large sections of the British people came relatively well out of the Depression   so much so, indeed, that some historians have dismissed the   as a myth.It is true that prices fell, while average incomes and living standards rose appreciably. Prosperity stemmed from the boom in housebuilding and the production and sale of consumer goods: cars, clothes, furniture, radios, telephones, vacuum cleaners, cigarettes. Clearly visible in the south and east of England were the beginnings of an affluent society.Nevertheless, even  that half the population was  living on a diet insufficient or ill-designed to maintain health . In the midst of plenty, their poverty was especially galling.Even those in work were haunted by the spectre of unemployment. As the Tottenham-born playwright  wrote:  It was impossible not to sense, and to share, the atmosphere of fear and foreboding which lay on the district like a frost. Such anxieties contributed to a pathological pessimism about the future of civilisation which characterised what historian  subsequently labelled  .