The immigration strategy discussed in the leaked Home Office document could be as beneficial to British workers as the Black Death (, 6 September). My limited historical knowledge tells me that when the working population was decimated as the bubonic plague spread throughout Britain (and Europe), employers suddenly had to start treating the people working for them decently, even paying them enough to live on.Of course, the document fails to address the impact their proposals will have on every area of economic activity across the whole country: no more cheap crop harvesters, nurses, carers, shop assistants, road cleaners, office workers, taxi and bus drivers etc. Nor does it even think about the massive impact that having to pay people real wages will have on business finances across the whole economy.But that last comment shows it could bring an end to the real cause of the Brexit anger: the fact that wages have stagnated for the longest period in 150 years (, 6 September). Many Tories will again rejoice that they have at last taken us back to the 60s – the 1860s that is. In respect of the rights of EU citizens post-Brexit, it’s often said that EU immigrants provide a major contribution to the economy and society. Is it not the case, then, that non-EU immigrants also provide a great contribution, usually under more financially adverse conditions? What is scandalous is the inequity of the present (pre-Brexit) immigration system. Pretty much all of the measures in the leaked document (including – yes – digital fingerprinting) have at some stage been part of my own immigration process, as a skilled non-EU migrant to the UK. Prior to my successful citizenship application, I paid UK taxes for seven years without the right to claim any form of benefit, while supporting a minor. Without exception, our passports have been checked on entry to the UK. None of this has been a problem: these are reasonable measures borne with a good humour by those of us who want to work in the great environment of the UK. If similar measures can be applied to all, that is only to be applauded. It is striking to note UK government proposals to end EU free movement rights as soon as the UK leaves the bloc in 2019. New rules would require EU nationals to seek permission before taking up a job, making employers recruit locally first. The impact of such a policy on Scotland will be devastating and it is no wonder that a plethora of major organisations have lined up to roundly condemn these proposals.There is clear evidence that Scotland’s future economic health, key services such as the NHS, the strength of our key institutions such as our universities and our future public finances depend on the maintenance of the ability of EU nationals to work and study freely in Scotland. While the number of pensioners in Scotland is expected to rise by 28% over the next 25 years, worker numbers are only increasing by 1%. We therefore face an ageing population, but only marginal growth in the working-age population. Scotland needs immigrants to balance this out and these reckless proposals will?be absolutely devastating.In the run up to the EU referendum, senior figures in the leave campaign, such as Michael Gove, promised increased powers over immigration would come to Scotland should the UK vote to leave the EU. These pledges, like many others that were made in that campaign, have been predictably quickly forgotten.Scotland desperately need an immigration system that caters to the challenges we as a nation face, not one that shuts the door to much-needed talent. If there is any political morality at all, it is lower-skilled foreign workers whom the UK ought to be offering home to. High-skilled workers, by contrast, are a precious resource in their own countries, and it is these people whom we should say no to. Our long-standing policy of stripping emerging economies of the people they most need has benefited the first world at the expense of the developing world. It has also sustained our failure over the long term to encourage, train and reward our own employees properly, and it is a policy we should stop at once.  I trust the migration advisory committee, in providing evidence to underpin a new immigration policy, will ask UK citizens living in the other 27 countries of the EU, and in particular their family members, whether they would welcome the same “plan” being applied to them post-Brexit by the EU27. Mass immigration is only a benefit to those in control of large businesses that benefit from it. The general public suffers competition and depressed wages. If a company cannot survive without a constant flow of immigrants, it shouldn’t be allowed to survive. If that means Londoners’ refined sensibilities are hurt then so be it! 