You report ( , 13 January) that the Swansea Bay scheme  would be the first of its kind in the world . In France, the  has been operating since 1966. In Canada, in the Bay of Fundy, which has the highest tides in the world, the plant at  has been operating since being opened by Prince Charles in 1984. However, the French have no firm plans for more such plants and the Canadians have abandoned them altogether. In Canada, a major consideration has been the devastating impact on fish stocks.It seems to me that the major objective of the proposal might be to extract taxpayer funding for no useful purpose, and the government needs to study the proposals very carefully to ensure we do not end up with a number of very large white elephants in the Severn estuary. In 1981 a report on tidal power from the Severn estuary by  calculated that an inner barrage alone could have generated as much electricity (12.9 TWh a year) as a potential series of tidal lagoons. While this could have been up and running within 14 years of starting construction, additional lagoons would add baseload to this reliable supply, given the natural differences in the times of tides sweeping around the coast of Britain.Back then the Central Electricity Generating Board was wedded to nuclear power, when the projected cost per kWh was on a par with the Rance tidal power station in Brittany, and  lectricit  de France assumed it was twice as expensive as nuclear power, instead of turning out to be cheaper. The ecological impact was negligible; a reduced tidal range would still expose plenty of mudflats where wading birds could feed twice a day, and studies found that the biodiversity of the Rance estuary soon returned. Your  () does not mention that the output from such tidal lagoons drops to zero twice every 24 hours. This could be compensated if tidal generation were to be linked to  nuclear reactors. The heavy water these reactors need could be generated by tidal power in periods of slack electricity demand. The reactors would provide power to the grid at the daily periods of zero tidal output and in general in accordance with grid requirements. If this route were to be taken, the economics of a full Severn barrage, with its maximum output some 25 times that of the Swansea Bay scheme, might well be worth reconsideration.