hat are governments for? I don¡¯t imagine I¡¯m the only one asking myself that question. With political debate spiralling in ever-diminishing circles most intelligent people are left tearing their hair. How did politicians in this country become so timid? And so incapable of using power well? It¡¯s as if the very mechanism we¡¯ve created to organise ourselves šC government šC has decided that the one thing it cannot do is organise us. Instead of planning for the future, protecting things of national importance, adapting to the many challenges facing the world, our politicians are burying their heads in the sand, still playing the old games and mouthing the same platitudes. People have always complained about their governments, of course. But the level of dissatisfaction now, at a time when living standards are so high, suggests a deeper malaise. In democratic societies the power of governments is said to come from us. Yet the real influence of voters in setting a course for the future is minimal.  There is a growing realisation that much of the power we have given them is being handed over to corporate interests. The selling off of public assets is part of this, but not the most insidious. Government , at a time when the rest of the world is turning away from coal, makes no sense, yet we seem powerless to stop it. Then there are the  or become lobbyists for major industries. Similarly corrosive are the  so that some MPs enter parliament already under an obligation to outside interests. And then there are the trade agreements. So intent have successive governments of both persuasions been in providing a level playing field for imports that many of our own companies have been bowled out of the game.  We live in a world where the most basic of products šC pencils, soap, light bulbs šC traverse the globe to get to us. And this at a time when we are supposed to be worried about our carbon footprint. It is not just sentimentality that makes people hanker for a country that actually makes stuff. It¡¯s a gut feeling that there is something not quite right in being so removed from the production of our daily needs; perhaps even a sense of vulnerability that people feel at a visceral level. Yet our political leaders fail to give it credence. If it is not the role of government to look after our interests, then what are governments for? One job is to help organise society in a way that ensures its smooth functionality. There are certain fundamentals that we lay at government¡¯s door: protecting the weak against the strong, defending citizens against aggressors. These then require other things of government šC promoting understanding, evening out inequality, enacting treaties with neighbours.  Governments are required to encourage economic activity because that impacts on the well-being of citizens. They have to ensure basic needs are met šC for food, shelter, clothing šC and for that people need jobs and income. We have given government a great deal of power in order to have these basic requirements met.  The power to tax is the most often talked about (and acted upon) and it is fundamental. Without it they can do nothing. But with that comes the responsibility to plan. Planning not just for today or the next three years but for prosperity into the future. And that is something that Australian governments have not been very good at. Even getting the basic infrastructure right seems to be beyond us, evident in the transport and urban planning nightmares that are our major cities. This wasn¡¯t always the case. The designers of the Sydney Harbour Bridge in the 1920s showed a remarkable degree of forethought šC its eight lanes must have seemed enormous in 1932. It took 70 years to pay off the Harbour Bridge debt: a public asset, publicly built and paid for. The next time government took on something so ambitious was Labor¡¯s plan for the national broadband network, and what a mess that has turned into since it became a political football. Recently there¡¯s been much talk about ¡°transition¡±. But what really does it mean? Transitioning from an economy reliant on mining? Transitioning away from a society dependent on fossil fuels? These are obviously related but one looks in vain for mechanisms that will make it happen. In April the , but in the May budget it failed to mention any government initiative related to that commitment. There¡¯s a kind of reality vacuum, a huge disjunction between intent and action. But one that is becoming increasingly familiar. It doesn¡¯t have to be this way. Other countries make decisions about the kind of economic development that will be of benefit to them and introduce policies that will make it happen. South Korea with the steel and car industries, for example. Spain with renewable energy. But in Australia our governments live in a neoliberal fantasy world where ¡°the market¡¯ is expected to do it. The renewables industry in Spain is a good example of the influence that government policy can have. In the early 2000s the Spanish government actively encouraged the renewable energy sector and Spain became a world leader. Then, after the GFC, austerity measures meant that, much like here, the subsidies that the industry was relying on in order to grow were removed. While wind expanded, solar stagnated. But even with the government in retreat, renewables still grew to supplying 50% of Spain¡¯s power requirements. Now the push is on to kick start solar again. And given the amount of sun Spain gets, the sky is the limit.We all live somewhere and it is not a sign of extreme nationalism or redneck patriotism to have a connection to and love for one¡¯s country. Too often people on the Left equate such sentiments with xenophobia, reactionary politics and brutish behaviour. There¡¯s a reluctance on the Left to argue for a vision of what this country can be. And it means we end up having no vision at all. Our attention has become atomised. We go into bat for particular issues šC saving the Great Barrier Reef, protecting inner-city neighbourhoods from motorways, a fair go for asylum seekers. All important issues. Meanwhile, the runaway train that leads to the future careens on, driverless, its carriages filled with those millions of Australians who have very little say over how their lives unfold, who are just getting by. Government should be driving that train but the attention of governments has become atomised as well, with thousands of details involved in running an administration and trying to run an economy. So the dots that make the big picture don¡¯t get joined. Public outrage might sway decisions but not the big picture. What, for example, is happening to our cities? Rapid population growth, unaffordable housing, congested roads and fraying social cohesion. Refugees become the scapegoats when these problems have little to do with them. Since 2000 Melbourne¡¯s population has grown by a third; Sydney¡¯s by a quarter. As Tim Colebatch wrote recently in Inside Story, . Both cities attract the bulk of migrants coming from Asia. Immigration from Asia is driving economic and population growth yet neither state nor federal governments seem prepared to meet the challenge of being a high immigration society; preferring to safeguard the precious AAA credit rating rather than spend on necessary infrastructure. The result is leading to urban sprawl and unliveable cities.  And it is leading to cities that working people cannot afford to live in. Australian governments have put housing in the too-hard basket, allowing profiteers and cashed-up overseas buyers to exert the kind of influence that government should counteract. Compare this to the German situation. They have a housing policy, and an economic policy generally, that is not afraid to control or manage. You can get a good-sized house in Germany for $US80,000. House prices in Germany have actually decreased over the past 30 years. Prices are stable because German governments, at all levels, recognise that housing affordability and a stable labour supply where you need it go hand in hand. If people can live near their workplaces they don¡¯t clog up the roads with long commutes. It¡¯s not rocket science but it does require planning. Germany has policies which discourages people from seeing home ownership as a way to make money. Most Germans are happy to rent for their lifetime, secure in the knowledge that they will not be evicted and that rent increases will be modest. All this removes the bubble and bust cycles so prevalent in the housing sector in Australia, the US and UK. It requires a government prepared to use the mechanisms that it has. It might also require a different mindset, and not one that would come easily to Australians, so deeply ingrained is our fixation on property. But the general attitude, which sees government policies as a key part of managing an economy, is an example we could follow.  For anyone who cares about their country, it is heartbreaking to witness what could be done, and is not being done. Be it renewable energy, manufacturing or urban planning, our natural advantages are being squandered. The focus on growth and security seems to have blinded governments to all else.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														