 The at the Angel Place shopping centre in Bridgwater was doing brisk business. A group of pensioners waited for a coach to take them for a tour of  10 miles away on the Somerset coast while children played with displays explaining how electricity is created. Teenagers dropped in to jump on to a static bike and power up their mobile phones.Opinions about the wisdom of building a new power station, , on the Somerset coast, were many and varied.¡°I think we need it to make sure the lights stay on,¡± said Richard Smart, 65, a retired builder who had come for the Hinkley B tour. ¡°I don¡¯t like the look of all those wind turbines on the hills though I wouldn¡¯t mind wave power. I¡¯m not scared by the idea of nuclear. I think they know what they¡¯re doing.¡±  Businesswoman Fay Gregory, who was with her 13-year-old son Max, was not so sure. ¡°I¡¯ve brought Max here so he can try to understand nuclear power¡± she said. ¡°It¡¯s his future we¡¯re talking about. We¡¯re creating something that he and his generation will be dealing with for many years to come.¡±  Seventeen-year-old Steve Moss said Hinkley Point C would provide an economic boost for the whole of the south-west of England. ¡°A lot of people think they have to move away from here to find a good job. I know some people are worried about the dangers of nuclear power and the problem of dealing with the waste but this will be massive for opportunities here.¡± That argument is made forcefully by EDF and by the politicians šC local and national šC who are backing the vast building project.  and at the peak there will be 5,600 people working at the site. Once built, the company says, it is estimated that 900 people will be employed at Hinkley C at any one time during its 60 years of operation.For decades, nuclear power has been a big employer in north Somerset. French-owned EDF has been at pains to claim that šC wherever possible - it will use local people and companies to build and operate Hinkley C. manager, Chris Langdon, of the Somerset chamber of commerce, has spent the last five years making sure local and regional businesses are ¡°Hinkley-ready.¡± He said: ¡°When most people think of a nuclear power station they think of the technical bit in the middle. But 80% of this is a big civil engineering project. You have to assemble the equivalent of a small town to build it and the range of businesses involved is huge from the folks who help feed the workforce šC the butcher, the baker šC right through to the manufacturers and construction guys. Then there¡¯s the people who run the buses to the site, the highway maintenance crews, the teams who keep the power, water and drains working.¡±  Husband and wife butchers Malcolm and Julie Pyne are among the suppliers who saw the opportunities offered by the plans for a new power station. They expanded their business from a high street shop into an close to the M5. They supply local beef, pork and lamb to the existing Hinkley site and are building a new meat-producing plant to cope with the extra demand Hinkley C would create. ¡°We¡¯ll also be increasing our staff from 40 to 60,¡± said Pyne. ¡°Hinkley provides fantastic business opportunities.¡±  Schools and colleges have been planning for years for the project. Liz Redwood, the executive director for apprenticeships and commercial strategy at , said education providers were creating a ¡°pipeline¡± of people with suitable skills. The first tranche will be involved in the initial groundworks, then a second will be ready five years down the line to undertake, for example, electrical and technical tasks. Weston College is also opening a that will offer university-level engineering courses and a to produce some of the accountants, managers and lawyers whom they hope will eventually be employed at Hinkley C.Redwood believes a nuclear industry ¡°cluster¡± in the south-west will provide exciting jobs for the sort of talented young people who might previously have had to leave the area to further their careers. ¡°That is good for local people, good for the region,¡± she said.Not everyone is a fan. Amy Granville, 78, was among a group of churchgoers in Bridgwater town centre waving a Jesus flag and inviting shoppers to stop and say a prayer. ¡°We¡¯ve been doing this for 17 years and I must admit nobody has asked to pray about Hinkley but I do worry about things like cancer if anything went wrong, if there was a leak. Will the new power station be safe?¡±Allan Jeffrey, a former science teacher and a spokesperson for the campaign group certainly does not believe Hinkley Point C would be secure. ¡°We¡¯re told nuclear power is safe but we¡¯ve had terrible accidents at Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and Fukushima,¡± he said.His terraced house in Bridgwater is the antithesis of the EDF visitor centre in the town centre. The front windows are adorned with anti-nuclear posters, the shelves inside heaving with files documenting Britain¡¯s nuclear history.No matter the detail of the EDF announcement this week, Stop Hinkley says the fight is not over and remains deeply sceptical over whether Hinkley Point C will ever actually take shape. Another campaigner, Roy Pumfrey, argued that the project was beset by financial problems and legal challenges and called on the government, even now, to focus on renewable rather than nuclear energy. ¡°We could replace Hinkley much more quickly and cheaply without the safety fears and without producing dangerous waste we don¡¯t know what to do with,¡± he said. ¡°The government¡¯s nuclear delusions are standing in the way of the west of England joining the renewable revolution.¡± 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														