A bid to open a new fracking frontier in the east Midlands has been dealt a blow after a last-minute intervention by conservationists who warned that it was unlawful and would harm an  incredibly important  nature reserve. firm iGas had sought planning permission to drill two wells to explore for shale gas at a former Ministry of Defence missile launchpad known as the Rocket Site in Misson, north Nottinghamshire.But lawyers for Friends of the Earth told councillors on Wednesday that they would be  authorising the commission of illegal acts  if they gave the green light to the scheme on the protected fenland, which is home to rare species including long-eared owls and lichens.The 11th-hour intervention came during a make-or-break week for fracking in the UK and could have significant ramifications for future shale gas explorations near protected areas.The Nottinghamshire proposal would mark the first shale gas well to be given the green light for exploratory drilling in the UK. The iGas applications do not involve fracking but the energy firm has indicated it would apply to frack the wells if the drilling results are positive.The latest decision was seen as significant because no fracking has taken place in the UK since 2011, when .Earlier this year, Third Energy was  to frack a vertical well it had already drilled in North Yorkshire but it has been unable to proceed pending a judicial review.Sajid Javid, the secretary of state for communities and local government, is due to decide on Thursday whether to approve  plans to use hydraulic fracking in Lancashire after local councillors rejected them.Councillors in Nottinghamshire deferred making a decision on the iGas application until 15 November to allow them time to receive  definitive legal advice  on the Friends of the Earth intervention.A letter is understood to have been sent by email to the council s planning officer Jonathan Smith and lawyers for iGas at 1.30pm on Wednesday, but it only emerged at 3.40pm   just as councillors were due to begin their debate and vote.The delay was welcomed by some councillors. Jayne Watson, from Misson parish council, described the intervention as  potentially a gamechanger  that could halt the scheme for good. She said:  It was a very dramatic last-minute decision. I think some people have said they wish there had been a decision today [on whether to approve the scheme] but it s a new piece of information that s definitely significant and due consideration needs to be given to that. Earlier, Watson told councillors that the scheme would have a significant adverse effect on the local area, whose residents were overwhelmingly against it.The committee meeting, which was picketed by anti-fracking campaigners, heard that there had been 493 objections from people who live near the proposed drilling site and 1,800 from the wider area.Many of the concerns centre on the fact that the drills would be taking place 125 metres from a protected nature reserve designated as a site of special scientific interest (SSSI).In the letter, which the Guardian has seen, lawyers for Friends of the Earth said an obscure legal covenant from 1969 would make approving the scheme unlawful. The conservation group said it meant the application should be refused.Smith had recommended that councillors approve the 3,500-metre wells. But Janice Bradley, head of conservation for Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust, told councillors that the exploratory work would cause harm to  extremely sensitive and rare species , including long-eared owls.Simon Gledhill, from the Misson community action group, raised concerns about potentially unexploded ordnance on the former bombing range, which was used by the RAF from the late 1930s to the late 1950s.The Ministry of Defence had said it did not know how many unexploded bombs were on the site, Gledhill said, adding that farmworkers regularly dug them up. iGas has got a number of places it could conduct these activities,  he told councillors.  Would you choose to drill and cause ground-borne vibrations in a place where you know that people have dropped bombs? Would you put at risk people, not just in the village, but staff and contractors? Why would anyone do that? Brian Davey, of the campaigning group Frack Free Notts, told councillors that if they voted to approve the plans they were  committing genocide on future generations  and they  would have to explain to your grandchildren why you did it .The accusation got a furious response from Stan Heptinstall, a Liberal Democrat councillor and former professor at the University of Nottingham, who said:  It really hurts me. We re here to look at a particular planning application in a particular way   as the chairman pointed out this planning application is for exploratory work. It is nothing to do with fracking. Liz Yates, the councillor for the Misterton ward which includes the proposed drill site, welcomed the intervention by Friends of the Earth.  It was unexpected but I think they ve done the right thing because it shows that they are giving it the consideration that it needs,  she said. The residents that are more clued up will appreciate the delay so that proper consideration is being given but there will be others who think it seems to be dragging on. Friends of the Earth s Jake White said:  We are delighted that our legal intervention has led the council to look more carefully at iGas s shale gas application. The legal implications of granting planning permission in this case would be particularly serious and we are delighted for our clients Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust as well as for the whole community that these points will be looked at properly at last. iGas did not comment outside the council chamber.