wongan Heath country in the midwest of Western Australia is one of the of the most biodiverse places on the planet. Whereas Europe and North America have had the evolution of their flora species reset to near zero several times due to extended glacial periods,  is host to the longest unbroken evolution of plant species on the planet. You can literally see evolutionary history written in the landscape. Nutrient poor soils and continuous wet and dry cycles over millennia have produced an incredible array of adaptations, specialisation and coping methods to fill every available ecological niche.There¡¯s no better time than wildflower season (now) to experience this living laboratory, and people from all over the country, and indeed the world, come to experience the carpets of colour and marvel at each unique specimen. What still remains of our wildflower heritage is precious fragments of what existed when Europeans arrived. After several generations of land clearing to make way for wheat and sheep farming, there is very little of the original Kwongan Heath left remaining. Scientists such as  have been calling for this area to be world heritage listed for some time but despite its global significance, incredible beauty and tourism values the area now facings perhaps its greatest threat yet. Deep beneath our feet, and below the life-giving waters of the Yarragadee aquifer, lies a vast shale gas deposit known as the North Perth Basin. This gas is so tightly held within the rock strata that it can only be extracted by smashing and fracturing the deep, gas-carrying rocks where they lie sandwiched in the Earth¡¯s crust. With , unconventional gas and fracking companies plan to access the gas by drilling hundreds or even thousands of gas wells through the groundwater aquifer. They will then pump the wells with a cocktail of chemicals at extreme pressure to shatter the layer of shale stone where the gas is tapped.A number of test wells have already been drilled including in the Lake Logue and  and on farmland a stone¡¯s throw from the Leseuer National Park. With each new well gas companies try their luck, and test different methods and chemicals for extracting the gas. If this industry developed at commercial scale, not only would the gas fracking have a massive impact on the ancient ecology, it would produce massive greenhouse emissions that would accelerate our already changing climate.The good news is we don¡¯t need the gas, as renewable energy is growing faster than demand can keep up. The bad news is that the state government is subsidising the drilling by gas companies who are desperate to make a quick buck before gas fracking is banned or investors wake up to the risks and exit the industry.The bumper wildflower season this year could not be coming at a better time to raise awareness of these issues. As WA heads towards an election, political parties will begin to tune into what voters want rather than what their corporate donors in the gas industry demand.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														