 My grandparents used to tell me that if you look after nature, then nature will look after you,  says Richard Clothier, managing director of Wyke Farms, which generates electricity, gas and heat from renewable sources.  It s nice to go to work in the morning and know you are doing the right thing. The dairy business in southwest England, which exports 14,000 tonnes of cheddar a year to more than 160 countries, has been building an energy generation and water recycling operation over the past five years to reduce its environmental impact and save money. According to Clothier, it s been able to lower its energy bills by nearly  100,000 per month as a result.Aside from solar panels, Wyke generates electricity and heat from cow dung. Using microbes, the dung is broken down to produce biogas, which the farm burns to generate electricity and heat. Since dung naturally  during decomposition, the process of producing biogas helps the farm cut the amount of methane   a    reaching the atmosphere. In addition, the cheese maker converts some of the biogas into , the majority of which it sells to businesses   including the supermarket chain Sainsbury s   via a local utility s pipelines.Wyke s reliance on solar and biogas  for an agricultural business. What sets Wyke s plan apart is its scale and complexity. The company is putting in place software to monitor energy generation and wastewater recycling, which can figure out the business s needs and adjust the energy generation accordingly.What s more, the company   which invested  5m in biomethane generation   is taking a risk by counting on signing up customers willing to pay more for low-carbon energy when natural gas remains abundant and cheap. Perhaps [Wyke will prove to] have the foresight that pays dividends over the long run,  says David Babson, a senior engineer at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a US nonprofit science advocacy group.  I hope that s the case because you want to establish policies that incentivise the right behaviour. While it s difficult to say for certain when the biomethane business will start to deliver a return, Clothier hopes the payback period won t be more than five or six years.To build its alternative energy operation, the dairy business has borrowed  11m from Barclays and put in  2m of its own money to cover the cost of planning, equipment, wiring and electric grid upgrades.Wyke can use the government s  to defray costs but it would get greater benefits by storing and using the renewable energy it generates on-farm because buying electricity from a local utility would cost 7.5 pence more per kilowatt-hour, says Clothier. As a result, Wyke is looking to boost the farm s solar energy generation and adding batteries.The farm is also eligible to  for producing biomethane and recovering and using heat from its biogas-fed power plants.The dairy business, which employs 225 people and expects to post about  2m in profit on  75m in revenue this year, hopes to inspire fellow farmers to adopt alternative energy. I m really keen to show our farmers what they can do,  says Clothier.  They can start with a couple of solar panels to reduce [their] daytime usage. You can start by doing just a little bit .