If EDF decides to go ahead with the construction of an ?18bn nuclear power station at Hinkley Point in Somerset it would be controversial. about the merits of the project for a decade, with the following some of the key arguments for and against.HinkleyPoint C will be the first nuclear power station to be built in Britain for a generation. It will provide 7% of the country¡¯s electricity for almost 60 years, helping to ensure that the UK produces enough energy to meet its needs.The government wants to phase out polluting coal by 2025, with nuclear offering a lower-carbon option that produces enough electricity to fill the gap created by closing existing plants. The ?18bn cost of  is being borne by EDF, which is 85% owned by the French government, and China General Nuclear Power Corporation, which has agreed to take a 33% stake in the project. Furthermore, the project is expected to create 25,000 jobs in the UK.Although EDF and China are funding construction,  through the price they pay for electricity. The government has agreed a strike price - a guaranteed price for the electricity generated by Hinkley Point - of ?92.50 per megawatt hour. This is significantly above wholesale electricity prices and most renewable energy sources, where costs are falling thanks to new technology.The 2011  led to Japan and Germany announcing that they would shut down all of their nuclear reactors. Japan has subsequently restarted some, but Germany still plans to close all its plants permanently by 2022. Concerns remain about how to deal with nuclear waste, and France¡¯s nuclear safety authority has found weaknesses in a reactor EDF is building in Flamanville, which is the same design as Hinkley Point C.In 2007, EDF¡¯s chief executive, Vincent de Rivaz, said Britons would be cooking its Christmas turkeys on new nuclear power by 2017. Hinkley Point C, however, is now not expected to be completed before 2025. Even that deadline and the ?18bn budget could be optimistic.  is more than three times over budget and years behind schedule. EDF¡¯s workers in France have  amid fears it could ruin the company¡¯s finances.																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																														