 will make it harder for Britain to play its role in tackling climate change, the UK energy and climate secretary has said.But Amber Rudd said that the UK remained committed to action on global warming and Whitehall sources have told the Guardian . While I think the UK s role in dealing with a warming planet may have been made harder by the decision last Thursday, our commitment to dealing with it has not gone away,  . Securing our energy supply, keeping bills low and building a low carbon energy infrastructure: the challenges remain the same. Our commitment also remains the same. As I said, I think the decision last week risks making it a harder road. She said she agreed with chancellor, George Osborne, that the UK now faced a period of uncertainty.  The decision on Thursday raises a host of questions for the energy sector, of course it does. There have been significant advantages to us trading energy both within Europe and being an entry point into  from the rest of the world. She added that the UK remained committed to new nuclear, including the planned  23bn expansion of Hinkley Point in Somerset, which some observers .Rudd s comments on Brexit having significant ramifcations for the energy sector were at odds with her energy minister, Andrea Leadsom, a prominent Leave campaigner during the referendum.  In my view, for energy policy I don t believe anything will change,  she said on Wednesday when asked by MPs on the committee on energy and climate change what impact Brexit would have. The UK s Climate Change Act is absolutely key to our climate change objectives, we continue to be absolutely committed to those. In terms of interconnectors, those are businesses, those are run on commercial terms and nothing will change. In terms of cooperation on climate change and decarbonisation our own commitment remains as strong, but we never only working with EU, we were working globally. Industry, experts and green groups broadly welcomed Rudd s speech today.Nick Molho, executive director of the Aldersgate Group, which represents BT, Ikea, M&S and a group of businesses supporting sustainability, said:  Coming a few days after the outcome of the EU referendum, it is positive to hear Amber Rudd highlight the importance of continuing to tackle climate change. The leading economist Lord Stern said:  The secretary of state s speech has provided reassurance that the long-term direction of UK climate change policy under the current government has not changed. Sam Barker, director of the Conservative Environment Network, said: This is a welcome intervention from the energy and climate change secretary. Ministers across this Conservative government have delivered significant environmental improvements, from planning an ambitious coal phase-out to creating the world s largest marine reserve. Greenpeace said that Rudd and Leadsom s commitment to the Climate Change Act was good but action was needed.  Soothing words are not good enough. Green investor confidence in the UK was shaky before Brexit because of the government s ever changing and incoherent policies, which neither minister seem willing to get to grips with even now,  said John Sauven, the group s executive director.On Wednesday, the wind power industry said that the uncertainty created by Brexit meant it was time the government reconsidered its stance on onshore wind power, for . RenewableUK s chief executive, Hugh McNeal, said:  It is precisely now, at this moment which is so unpredictable and uncertain, that I believe we should reflect on what we can offer; cheap, homegrown electricity able to deliver hundreds of millions of pounds of capital investment for our economy over the next few years, helping companies all over Britain just at a time when we need it most. Separately,  that Mark Reckless, a Ukip Welsh assembly member had been appointed chair of the Welsh assembly s Climate Change, Environment and Rural Affairs Committee. Ukip has repeatedly cast doubt on climate change science and in the 2015 general election .