 has canvassed federal funding for the Galilee basin railway in talks with Malcolm Turnbull but says it would be  totally unacceptable  for the Indian coalminer Adani to own it.Katter said he raised the issue as a factor of his support  with Turnbull in Brisbane on Thursday but  we ve done no deals .He said the rail line to open up Australia s largest thermal coal reserve needed to be built  as soon as it can  but that it  should be owned by Australians . I don t want a foreign corporation to control the Galilee,  Katter said, adding his political party were  socialists  on the issue. What sort of a country are we? We give half of the coal resources of Australia under the control of a foreign corporation? That is against everything that I believe in. Adani currently proposes to build the rail line as the first miner to open up one of the world s largest thermal coal reserves through its Carmichael mine. The company was once in talks with the former Newman state government over funding. There has since been Katter said the railway would cost $2bn and open up the Galilee for other miners like the Australian company Resolve , as well as Adani.He claimed payroll tax and coal royalties   which go to state coffers   would deliver a profit on the rail investment after three years. Katter did not specify whether the railway should be owned by the  government or the commonwealth, or how federal funding of a state asset would work. As far as we re concerned, there s no way in the world a foreign corporation will own that railway line. That is totally unacceptable to us, he said.The contentious Carmichael project has been delayed amid a thermal coal market slump and a  from conservationists and traditional owners. Tim Buckley, from the Institute for the  Economics and Financial Analysis, said Katter s proposal  puts the Adani project back in contention  as the company would likely agree to the government building the rail line.But Adani still faced the  enormous obstacle  of reaching financial close on $7bn to build the mine and a new terminal at Abbott Point coal port in a slumping coal market. The Indian government is actively discouraging coal imports by electricity generators. Buckley said a restructure of Adani s Indian parent, Adani Enterprises, had left it needing to find $10bn in funding for its mine, rail and port, with just US$1.4bn in equity capitalisation and existing net debt of US$2.6bn.He said Katter was wrong about the cost of the railway, saying the north link to include Resolve Coal would actually cost $3bn.Katter, asked whether the government risked throwing good money after bad at a stranded asset by building the railway, said Adani had  already put out a billion dollars  into the Carmichael project. Once you put out a billion dollars, you can t back out. If that rail line s built, they ll have to go forward, they ll have no alternative,  he said.Katter said there were  28 major people who have got the wherewithal to start mining [the Galilee] tomorrow   I m not saying they will but they could if they wanted to .He was  not interested in Adani, but I am interested in them not owning that rail line , Katter said.  That belongs to the people of Queensland and it will stop growth on the Galilee if that s privately owned. It s got to be a multiuser facility   and if Adani builds it, it s not a multiuser facility, he has control of half of Australia s coal resources. That s why [Katter s Australia party], why we fight, we don t want that to happen. 