 got his leather jacket out for his visit to the southern New South Wales town of Cooma for a briefing on Snowy Hydro 2.0.The jacket has become a talisman, a reminder of earlier carefree days out of the prime ministerial suite, when he was delivering political double speak on Q&A designed to give  heartburn.Now Abbott is giving back in spades and, while Turnbull wanted to spend the morning talking about big nation-building infrastructure projects like the hydro project, which might go ahead, journalists wanted to ask the prime minister about Abbott s latest speech: . Gobstopping in its audacity, Abbott called on Turnbull to freeze the renewable energy target at 15% , a moratorium on new windfarms and a pause on immigration after he (generously)  on top of the existing humanitarian intake.Coming on top of the incendiary effect of Turnbull ally Christopher Pyne s boasts that the Liberal moderates have taken over the party and would soon deliver on marriage equality, the  would appear fit to burst.But Turnbull is ever the optimist. He told the Cooma media conference the drilling had just begun to give a better understanding of the geology along the tunnels, particularly where the big generator chamber was going to be built. We re talking a  very big hole , Turnbull said.But his frustration was evident.How do you change the direction of the party and is it time  was moved to the backbench? asked one journalist. I am sorry that the largest pumped hydro storage project in the southern hemisphere has lost your interest so quickly,  Turnbull said.  Do we have more questions on energy? What about Snowy FM? Abbott is putting forward his own suggestions on energy and says we need a strong conservative voice now more than ever. How is that not a threat to your authority? There is nothing more conservative than ensuring you have affordable and reliable electricity,  Turnbull said.He batted off Abbott s suggestions for a wind moratorium and a lower renewable energy target. Let me just remind you that the renewable energy target was recently renegotiated and legislated in 2015,  Turnbull said.  That was while Mr Abbott was prime minister. As leader, what is your message to your MPs who are fighting at each other s throat and, as leader, do you intend or would you move Christopher Pyne, or consider an early reshuffle?Turnbull squared up. He wanted to be  very, very clear .  I understand the media s fascination with personalities,  he said.  But the only personalities I am interested is that of 24 million Australians.  In answer to unnamed calls from some conservatives for more places in the ministry, Turnbull did say he had an  outstanding ministry . No hint of dropping Pyne. While there have been persistent rumours that he is considering a reshuffle, it is understood that a change to the ministry is not imminent. Besides, who to reward? A conservative or a moderate?A few hours later, Abbott popped up at his regular 2GB spot and was asked whether he had any inkling Pyne was not loyal. When I was the party leader my approach to it was I will judge people as I find them   I will give them the benefit of the doubt,  Abbott said.  I will assume that they are on the right side, doing the right thing and let s just get on with the job. I believed as party leader my job was not to become neurotic about my party colleagues but to do what was expected of me. Abbott allowed himself to reminisce. A lot of good things happened in those days. We stopped boats, we got the three free trade agreements finalised after a decade of procrastination, a whole lot of infrastructure that stalled for years such as the western Sydney airport got under way, we made a very strong start on budget repair    While Abbott has few supporters in the party room, he remains a constant headache   a bit like Kevin Rudd before him, albeit without the electoral popularity. Even conservatives and almost-conservatives are frustrated by his behaviour. Consider the social services minister Christian Porter s contribution on Wednesday. Tony Abbott has his own views about individual policy areas but if the observation is put from anyone that there is kind sort of shift to the left under the Turnbull government, I don t think that it sustained by actually looking at the individual policy areas,  Porter said.Or the infrastructure minister and Nationals MP, Darren Chester, who :  The media s focus on personalities is a really significant problem for us a nation. No one really cares if Tony likes Malcolm   they are asking me,  When are you going to build a better road for us? There is no leadership challenge but Turnbull is ringing around colleagues to calm the jitters, while Pyne has apologised to assorted marginal MPs. But Abbott will not stop any time soon. His weekly radio appearances continue and there is another speech on Thursday entitled Submarines: Why Settle for Second Best? It could be a metaphor.  I regard myself in it for the long haul, I regard myself as having what in a different context we might call a vocation,  Abbott said.Somewhere a leather jacket is straining.