 first tried to buy my house about 10 years ago. It s a former coastguard s station I bought 25 years ago and extended with my own hands. I ve put blood, sweat and tears into these walls. I used to have a clear view of 30 miles of coast, from Peterhead down to Aberdeen, where I m from. It was a pristine natural environment, and supposedly a site of special scientific interest. Now I look out on to the 10th tee and the 18th green. A nasty clubhouse is off to my right and, beyond that, holes one to nine.At first people working for Trump pretended they wanted to move to the area and made pathetic offers. There were only a few houses on the proposed development and it didn t take long for us to work out what was going on. Then, in about 2008, . We found out that Trump had applied to the council for compulsory purchase orders. I was under the impression that they could only be used for roads or railways   not for Donald Trump s golf course.There was a summer of intense campaigning and eventually the threat of compulsory purchase was temporarily lifted   they would build around us. But things were still nasty. Trump said my neighbour Michael Forbes  lives like a pig . His security guards shone their truck headlights into our windows at night. He decided my house was ugly so had huge earth banks pushed up from the field behind me to block the view. He planted huge trees around my boundary and cut off my phone line countless times and my power lines at least twice   all apparently accidentally.  and harassed folk innocently walking on the golf course. But I m as stubborn as they come. Giving up is not an option.The whole thing has convinced me that the majority of politicians are parasites on the public purse and that . He masks his lack of self-confidence in this egotistical clown suit and has the demeanour of a 12-year-old boy who never grew up.In a way we have won because we re all still here. But more than that we ve won because we still have our honesty and self-respect and integrity. We haven t stooped to lies and threats or bullying. What has he got? A mediocre golf course that will never make any money. Nature is already nibbling away at it and will gradually take it back. I ll be here to watch it.On the night I decided to fight I had one question going round in my mind: am I crazy? Warner/Chappell, part of a giant entertainment conglomerate, had millions of dollars and dozens of lawyers at its disposal. I was an independent documentary maker. It seemed impossible.I drank a glass of wine and thought: I have to try anyway.Everything started while I was making a film about the song Happy Birthday To You. I wanted to make this because it s probably the world s most famous song, yet nobody really knows who wrote it or why it developed into an ubiquitous piece of folk culture. Added to that, the song was owned by Warner and, if you perform it in public, you have to pay. It makes the company $2m every year. Even for my small film, I was charged $1,500.While I was making the documentary, I met  from the George Washington University. He had spent years researching the song and his conclusion was that Warner had no right   creative, moral or legal   to be charging people.Happy Birthday borrows its melody from an earlier written song, Good Morning To All. That was composed by two teachers, sisters , around 1893. It was designed to be an uplifting, joyous piece for children at their Kentucky school to sing each day. This song was copyrighted on the sisters  behalf by the Clayton F Summy Company. Then in 1935, the company   which was later acquired by Warner   registered several other songs, -including Happy Birthday, with the same melody as Good Morning To All. By then, it had become popular across America and the world.Brauneis s research showed there was no proof the sisters wrote the Happy Birthday lyrics and, therefore, there were no grounds to copyright.If the legal stuff was heavy, the upshot seemed simple: Happy Birthday belonged to the world. It was public property. Charging people to sing it seemed a racket. It was ridiculous. I felt compelled to right the injustice. This was a song about joy and celebration   and one that no individual had ever actually claimed as their own   yet a giant corporation was exploiting it for gain. It is estimated Warner has made more than $50m since 1988, when acquisitions brought the song into its ownership. I showed a lawyer friend, Randall Newman, my research and asked him if we could challenge Warner. He said we had a good shot, but it was daunting. We decided to move forward anyway.For 12 months, we studied copyright law and dug into archives looking for more evidence. The more evidence we found, the more I knew we could win but I worried, because there was so much at stake, that Warner might not play fair. When we filed the claim, in October 2013, it was like a bomb going off. The world s media ran the story and the response was overwhelmingly supportive. People were shocked Warner had been allowed to get away with this for so long.What followed was pretty unglamorous: archives, legal study, gathering evidence, corralling arguments.The case came up for summary judgment in March 2015. Our arguments were lock-tight and I was confident, but in such claims the judge assesses the evidence in private and doesn t make a decision immediately. We left court on tenterhooks.It took six months. I had been to the gym and saw my phone had 20 missed calls. They were all from my lawyer. I phoned back. He just said:  Congratulations, you ve won, we ve won. .  The main feeling was delight; relief; vindication, happiness my documentary had the right ending. It s just a song, but it felt good to be giving it back to the world, its rightful owners.I knew when I put in the request form four months before the holiday that it would be rejected. I knew that I would come back from Florida to find truancy penalty notices. And I knew that I wasn t going to pay. I didn t know that I d end up in the dock, feeling like I was going to throw up.My wife and I separated three years ago. It was extremely traumatic   particularly for our daughters, now eight and 11. It s still difficult to know that for half of the rest of their lives I m going to be missing and the time I have with them is precious. After years of trying, we had a chance to go on a big holiday with all the family. But to be part of it, my youngest daughter, who has different term dates to her sister, needed to miss seven days of school.I ve studied law and I m pretty good at reading legislation. Nothing I could find said that my daughter s absence could amount to a crime. Parents must ensure children attend school  regularly . My daughter had a 100% record for the year when I requested the holiday. So I politely explained the situation in a letter to the council. All I got back was a court summons. I was gobsmacked.I m a pretty robust character but I felt sick at the plea hearing at the magistrate s court. When I pleaded not guilty, the clerk made it clear that I faced thousands of pounds in costs and fines, but I argued I had not committed an offence. By then it had become clear that local authorities have limited the period of assessment for the term  regularly  to the period of the holiday. So my daughter had failed to attend regularly between 13 and 21 April, when of course her attendance was zero. But I found a high court ruling that said the wider attendance must be considered, which you would think is obvious. . I was almost in tears, but then I got fighty. If I was in tears and I was innocent, how do other people cope with this? That night I posted it on Facebook and within a matter of days every media organisation in the country was on the phone. The story chimed with so many people. I was on a TV sofa with a woman who had taken her child out of school in a brief break in her chemo and had been prosecuted. We don t live in North Korea. It s not reasonable to criminalise people like this.Meanwhile, the council appealed and took it to the high court. We made the same argument about the meaning of  regularly  and won again. I was so shaken I couldn t go back outside for about an hour.  on Sky, ITN, Channel 5   I had different parts of the BBC fighting over me.I wanted the press to raise awareness but it was difficult at times. I heard Nick Ferrari on the radio saying I was a skinflint just trying to get a cheap holiday. I thought, you absolute jerk   it had absolutely nothing to do with price. It s about the stigma, the thought that society views you as incompetent or indifferent to your child s wellbeing   that it s looking down its nose at what are really difficult decisions. It s the suggestion that the state knows better than you what is right for you children. It doesn t.. This will be their third crack at me and I think it is disgraceful. It hasn t affected my daughter, who still loves school. The day after the high court case I turned off my phone and took the kids out on our bikes. A parent coming the other way stopped and recognised me.  You re Jon Platt, I ve got to shake your hand!  she said. My kids thought that was the coolest thing in the world.When my husband sat on the train down from London five years ago and read in his newspaper that an oil and gas company was coming to drill in Balcombe, we thought, oh my God   that s our village. We had no idea what  was. At the first parish meeting, the American CEO of Cuadrilla came to explain. I don t think he expected to get such a hard time. .We moved to Sussex more than 30 years ago to get away from London. We live in an old station inn looking out across wooded hills. Balcombe is a small village in an area of outstanding natural beauty. And they were drilling land where people walk their dogs and clambered on the rocks as children. It started as a nimby thing but as we learned about the risks of fracking and the covering up of anti-fracking evidence by governments across the world, it became something bigger. The next time Cuadrilla came down, in 2013, they arrived in a coach with a heap of PR people from Bell Pottinger. Soon after that, the drilling equipment arrived   .We tried to maintain a small, local presence on the grass verge opposite the entrance to the site. Then Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace got in touch. I had never, to my shame, protested against anything in my life. We had a lot to learn. I had help in writing press releases and Friends of the Earth got their lawyer to look at all the paperwork. I remember driving home late one night from a local restaurant and seeing little fires beside the road. People were drinking tea and talking. Some had been at the Occupy protests in London, others were environmental protesters. It was a total surprise. I hurried home to fetch them some sleeping bags.We knew that Cuadrilla s planning permission for exploratory drilling was due to run out at the end of September 2013, so the objective became slowing them down. The camp grew in the summer holiday, with locals and people from fracking sites all around the country. We had a kitchen tent and a meeting tent, and more than 200 people sleeping there at its peak.There was a day in August when more campaigners came down. We all gathered by the station and marched down in our thousands and made a circle of people around the drill site, just holding hands. It was one of the most exciting days of my life   the energy was amazing. The next day, the protests had closed the road and drilling had stopped. Activists had  in London. In Balcombe, we were sitting in a circle and I was next to Caroline Lucas, the Green MP from Brighton. I then had to go home to cook lunch because I had some French people staying. .When Cuadrilla , they hadn t been able to do all the testing they had wanted to. Suddenly the police were gone, too. We climbed over the gate and walked up on what had been forbidden territory all summer. It was magical. We had won, and it felt surreal. We were up against powerful forces   PR machines, the power of the oil and gas industry, and a government that manipulates laws and planning rules. But Balcombe showed how people power can win.It has also changed me. I ve always been very shy. I never spoke at school or university and never dared to speak publicly to promote my wine writing. But now I speak at fracking conferences around the world. , I taught a handful of French people how to sing new words to Fr re Jacques related to oil and gas in which the chorus was  bugger off, bugger off.  I wish someone had forced me to be brave earlier in my life, but this has done it.I was 26 when I got a two-year working holiday visa to come to Britain. I had never been here but I was so into football and in my mind I was going to go and see all these stadiums I had learned about. At first I lived in Tottenham and worked in bars. I didn t know that, a few years later, I would be cleaning floors in Selfridges while fighting the government in the high court.After two years, I discovered I could join the British army as a commonwealth citizen. The training was tough and we knew in our minds that we could be sent to a warzone but I enjoyed the camaraderie, and had wanted to be a soldier when I was young. But I later found out I had broken the law in Botswana by enlisting in another army without permission. If I went home, I could be arrested and even imprisoned.I had to stay in Britain, but when I applied for citizenship as I prepared to leave the army, my application was rejected. I had failed the  good character  requirement. I couldn t understand it   I had an exemplary army record. But the year before I had been caught doing 81mph in a temporary 50mph zone on the M1 at 1.30am one night. I admitted my guilt, paid the  100 fine and took the five points on my licence. This was why my application failed.I appealed and my commanding officer wrote a letter, but I was rejected again. One solicitor told me it was too late to do anything. I was giving up hope when I heard about . They helped me apply for a judicial review and I got a hearing date at the high court for February 2014   almost two years away. I was living in a veterans  hostel and doing nightshifts as a cleaner in Selfridges. I was stateless and never knew when someone was going to come knocking to send me home.I was in so much trouble and pain. Sometimes I just sat in the hostel, staring at the ceiling. But it made me think: people like me don t know what kind of legal help is out there. I d been helped by a lawyer and now I wanted to do the same. So I found the strength to come home from my nightshift, have a shower and go to law school. By the time my hearing came, I had almost given up hope. It felt like I was just witnessing another trial. But t and my two years of living in limbo were over. I m now a British citizen and have no hard feelings   it was just unfair. I also have my law degree and just finished my bar professional training course. Now I m looking for a pupillage. It would give me such a great feeling to know I can help someone in the same way.I remember sitting at home one night in 2009, flicking through the channels and seeing . Oh Jesus, I thought, here we go. I had opened my comedy club in 1994 in Birmingham, and got the name trademarked in 1999. We were one of the early movers in the comedy club business and we thrived. But we were always a small business.At first I thought I would wait and see. Maybe it would flop. Instead it transferred to Sky and the viewing figures went off the scale. Not only did it have the same name, but it was the antithesis of what we did. We do edgy comedy and what one reviewer described as  achingly credible singer-songwriter  music. The other Glee was . And we were being openly ridiculed. Teenagers were singing outside and having their pictures taken by the signage. Comedians tweeted that they were appearing at Glee and being hit with general mockery. It was increasingly problematic to market and promote the business; for the first time in 20 years we needed to explain what we were.My lawyer said I had a strong case and at first I wanted to keep things proportionate by going through the patents court, where costs are capped. But Fox were having none of it. They won the right to take it to the high court, where I faced a minimum bill of  500,000. That s when I thought, right, I m not having this; if Fox think they can price me out of a legal remedy, they can think again. When someone tells me I can t do something, it becomes my greatest motivation.Being caught in a fight like this is not fun. This is a company worth multiple billions, against me. It s hard to think of a more David and Goliath battle. I ve got a wife and two small children. One day Fox wrote me a letter basically saying that I could be liable personally if I lost. It was absolutely chilling. I sat at the kitchen table with my wife and she asked:  Could we lose the house?  But once it became attritional, there was no way I was going to give up.The high court first found that my trademark had been infringed in 2014 but Fox have appealed practically every point. In February this year, . I cannot describe how good it feels to be vindicated, but I would always urge people to avoid litigation. It s a grim experience and it has now cost me more than  1m . Ultimately, I ll go before one more judge   possibly in the supreme court   and I ll beawarded some sort of royalty. The irony is that the fight has outlasted the other Glee. My business lives on.