 and the EU will forge an alliance to take a leading role in tackling climate change in response to Donald Trump s expected decision to pull the US out of the historic Paris agreement.Trump tweeted on Wednesday night that he would announce his decision at 3pm ET (8pm BST) on Thursday. There are fears that will he confirm reports that  on the small list of countries , signed in 2015.But Beijing and Brussels have been preparing to announce their intention to accelerate joint efforts to reduce global carbon emissions.According to a statement being prepared before an EU-China summit in Brussels on Thursday and Friday, the new alliance will say they are determined to  lead the energy transition  toward a low-carbon economy.The EU s climate commissioner, Miguel Arias Ca ete, told the Guardian:  The EU and China are joining forces to forge ahead on the implementation of the Paris agreement and accelerate the global transition to clean energy. Ca ete continued:  No one should be left behind, but the EU and China have decided to move forward. Our successful cooperation on issues like emissions trading and clean technologies are bearing fruit. Now is the time to further strengthen these ties to keep the wheels turning for ambitious global climate action. In their declaration, Brussels and Beijing will also call on all parties  to uphold the Paris agreement  and signal their  highest political commitment  to doing so themselves.The document describes climate change as a national security issue  and  multiplying factor of social and political fragility The Paris pact is a  historic achievement  and  irreversible , the document says.In a bid to calm jangling nerves in the developing world, the document reaffirms funding commitments and promises to bring forward new mid-century greenhouse gas reduction targets. The two blocs will also launch their first ever clean-energy cooperation, as well as measures on energy efficiency, low-emissions transport and low-carbon cooperation between cities. The EU-China agreement on the full implementation on international commitments under the Paris agreement becomes even more important,  one EU source said.A senior EU official said there was a steely determination that the Paris agreement would not be allowed to unravel, having formally come into force last November.  This is not the end of the world,  she said.It is hoped that the opposition for action on climate change in the White House will not be matched at the state level, where programmes are already in place and where there is a political will to defy the Washington line.The expected announcement in Brussels illustrates  as Trump turns the US inwards and prepares to shun its commitments under an international agreement Barack Obama had described as a  turning point for our planet  and a  major leap for mankind .The joint EU-China statement will offer a high level of detail on how they intend to make real the promises they made when they agreed to limit global warming to well below 2C (3.6F).The EU, which has pioneered an emissions trading system, has agreed to provide China with  10m ($11.2m) to support its plan to roll out its own programme this year.Both sides will also promise to help developing countries reduce their carbon footprint, and the EU will increasingly share its technological knowhow.  Tackling climate change and reforming our energy systems are significant drivers of job creation, investment opportunities and economic growth,  the joint statement is expected to say.On Wednesday,  from Washington that Trump had, after months of prevarication, decided to remove the US from the agreement   despite pressure from world leaders at last weekend s G7 summit. The speculation in the US was followed by  in which he said he would announce his decision  on the Paris accord over the next few days. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! The expected decision from Trump   who once described climate change as a Chinese hoax   has appalled leaders in the EU and China, but there is a resolve to maintain the momentum behind the Paris agreement. EU sources said there was no evidence that any other countries would follow Washington s lead.Finnish prime minister Juha Sipila reacted to the reports that Trump intended to withdraw from the Paris agreement by saying that climate change won t be reversed  by closing your eyes    and calling the expected withdrawal  a big setback .In Denmark, the country s climate minister, Lars Christian Lilleholt, said that  if true, this is a really, really bad signal from the United States. On Thursday night in Brussels, the Chinese prime minister, Li Keqiang, will join the president of the European council, Donald Tusk, and European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker for an informal dinner before the main events the following day.A series of communiques and memorandums of understanding are expected to be released. The issues range from a need to increase free trade and ensure respect for global rules and norms, to dealing with non-competitive practices.The EU will also raise its continued concerns about human rights abuses in China, in particular in relation to new legislation on non-governmental organisations and the media.However it will be the joint climate change statement that will be the centrepiece of the summit. An EU official said:  The climate change discussions will be about how to promote the implementation of the deal in Paris. How to promote the use of clean energies. This is a survival question for many Chinese cities and regions. And also for India.  has unprecedented knowhow in this field   technological knowhow, and also legal and regulatory knowhow to promote the use of such technologies. This is therefore a key area of cooperation between us. Wendel Trio, the Director of Climate Action Network Europe said:  The summit shows that climate protection is and will remain top priority in the international cooperation, no matter what the US administration does. The strengthened climate alliance between the EU and China should trigger more climate action. This will smooth the way for the two powers to ramp up their Paris climate pledges by 2020, when they are due to be resubmitted. Both are set to overachieve their targets and can afford to make an even bigger contribution. Li Shuo, the climate policy adviser of Greenpeace East Asia, said it was crucial for the largest emitters of carbon to fill the vacuum left by the US s likely decision.He said:  The rapid backlash of US climate action requires enhanced leadership from all other countries. At the upcoming EU-China summit, Beijing and Brussels need to demonstrate they are putting new and collective leadership into concrete terms. If US-China climate cooperation gave birth to the Paris agreement, now it is up to EU and China to defend and enhance it. 