 and Ray Hadley shared a laugh on Sydney radio as the shock jock praised the federal treasurer s  great stunt  on Friday when he brandished a lump of coal at the opposition during question time on Thursday.Morrison relayed to the 2GB presenter how he had urged Labor  don t be afraid, don t be scared  of the rock, and the deputy prime minister, Barnaby Joyce, had juggled with it in question time.Hadley revealed he was a fan of the  odd stunt myself  during their interview on Monday morning. Were you channelling me at any stage when you got that big hunk of coal and hid it   were you thinking that wasn t such a bad stunt with the Bible, I m going to try to do it with coal?  Hadley asked, referencing  that he had backed Abbott in the leadership spill. I do all my own work Ray, just like you,  Morrison responded.After the moment of mutual admiration Morrison told Hadley he was  actually making quite a serious point  about the Labor party s  demonising  of coal at the expense of their own constituents. We re not saying that the only thing we should be doing going forward is coal, that wasn t the point. I mean our policy is all of the above. We have no more a fear of coal than we have a fear of wind, or solar, or wave energy, or pump-hydro, or whatever the option is. Morrison suggested that Labor was not afraid of coal, but of the Australian Greens.  Because that s what driven them to write off those jobs of those people in their electorates, and they re basically cheering on the closure of coal-fired power stations. Many on social media refused to share in Hadley and Morrison s merriment over the coal stunt as large parts of Australia s east coast sweltered in unprecedented temperatures over the weekend. The coal was from the Hunter Valley and, in response to persistent questioning from Hadley, the treasurer confirmed that he had brought it in  in a little bag . It was too big to put in your pocket,  observed Hadley. I brought it in a little bag,  repeated Morrison.  Look, sometimes you ve got to do something like that to get some attention onto the issue. I could have just got up and said  it s important that coal is part of the mix of things going forward . He said five coal-fired power stations were due to close within the next decade, posing a  significant issue  with electricity supply. Morrison wanted coal put  back on the table . The Labor party and the Greens took coal off the table, they treated it like a toxic substance   I just thought that was an insult to the men and women who live, in many cases, in their own electorates whose livelihoods depend on it. 