 After a verdict on Monday that will see the first operation to frack for shale gas in five years in North Yorkshire, anti-fracking campaigners have accused the county council of  to clean air and water.Tests for shale gas can now take place in the village of Kirby Misperton, in the Ryedale district, after councillors gave the green light to UK firm Third . We asked those living in the area their views on fracking and whether they ll continue protesting.I ve been a resident in Kirby Misperton for 11 years and my house sits on the edge of the village overlooking the well site. This is a quiet village in a beautiful area with a famous zoo. I ve taken part in protests in the past and plan to do so again in the future - I m wholeheartedly opposed to fracking anywhere. Locally, pollution from increased traffic and constant noise and light pollution from the rig operations concerns me. The high risk of environmental damage with the threat of poisoning to our local water table as a consequence of operational mistakes from an untried and untrusted process is also worrying. There is also potential damage to property - a hike in house insurance premiums and a drop in property prices. Nationally, I have no faith in a resource-stretched environment agency to administer regulations safely. There is no belief this policy will deliver the step change in sustainable energy supply being touted (many more wells will be needed over the entirety of Yorkshire). This is strictly about business and profitability - not people, our homes, our environment and our right to say no. Would you want to live 300m away from a drill site?Seven councillors (against four) failed to listen to their constituents  voices. This is a sad day for democracy, a sad day for North Yorkshire, for the UK, and ultimately for the planet. The most telling arguments for me against this decision are firstly the fact that proliferation is written into the application as many more applications will inevitably follow   why else would they frack? - and the government will be encouraged to uphold Cuadrilla s appeal against the Lancashire planners  decision. Secondly, this proliferation will render it impossible for the UK to meet its climate change commitments. This is a real blow for those concerned to draw attention to this government s hypocrisy in withdrawing real support for alternative energy sources, whilst loudly maintaining the contrary; for failing to take the option for the poor as against the rich, the poor who will suffer first and most for this government s insane devotion to fossil fuels. Those who voted to accept the application may indeed have believed that there are no risks which have not been adequately addressed by regulation, incredible though this does sound. What they cannot affirm is that the industry has ensured that there will never be adverse impacts. Those who, whilst not sure, still vote for fracking should not be representing us - the people of North Yorkshire. Those opposed to this pernicious practice are determined to fight on.I m really concerned about the industrialisation of rural Britain. As someone who lives near a proposed fracking site, the implications in terms of resources and truck movements for license blocks stretching right across the country are huge. At first I thought the activists were overstating the case but the more you enquire into shale gas extraction the more reason there is to be worried. The potential scale of the enterprise has become apparent to me.This is fossil fuel extraction! Climate change has been acknowledged at international level to be a critical issue. I don t trust the idea that shale gas is a part of a careful plan to meet our carbon dioxide reduction targets. I want to see evidence of no nonsense government policies that head us directly towards a zero carbon Britain. This is a game-changer. Do pro-fracking politicians appreciate the true scale of what they want to give the oil and gas companies the go-ahead to do? Geologists suggest there may be a lot of gas down there to extract. The government is doing all it can to clear the way for the companies to extract it. Naturally they want to extract as much of it as they can, why wouldn t they, it is the business they are in! There are a hundred things I would rather be doing than fighting fracking. Sadly I ve realised that if we don t actively try to stop it, it will happen. I am unhappy with the anti-democratic process that is happening with regard to fracking and want to stand up and show the government that what they are trying to impose on North Yorkshire and the rest of England is not OK. I have never protested about anything before in my 58 years of life but I plan to now! The fear of contamination to the environment to the air we breathe, the noise, risk of water table contamination and risk of earthquakes concern me. There s also the disruption and stress in our communities from heavy vehicles on our country roads, as well as unknown health effects to humans and wildlife. We should think about the impact of climate change for our children and grandchildren and be investing the money in renewables and not taking more fossil fuels out of the ground. I live in an eligible fracking site and I ve taken part in protests and plan to again in the future. I m totally opposed to fracking. It threatens our air and water quality and water supplies. It poses risks to our physical and mental health. It will overwhelm our countryside and wildlife, and traffic will clog country lanes. Spills and methane emissions will cause pollution and hasten climate change. There are few economic benefits for the people whose homes will be devalued. The development of sustainable energy will be set back. Ban fracking now!  My health, my property, my water supplies, the countryside and wildlife and the future of our planet are my main concerns. Evidence from the US, Canada and Australia is emerging proving that fracking is harmful and the public are turning against it. I have never campaigned in my life, but this industry has the potential to destroy north Yorkshire. It relies on tourism and agriculture for its thriving economy not the gas industry. In fact most of Ryedale doesn t have mains gas! Transport on country roads, pollution, contamination, industrialisation of the countryside, threat to human and animal health concern me, as do noise and air pollution. The government is riding roughshod over local democracy in order to pave the way for this industry. It is short-term gain for the industry but is not economically viable and is unproven in the UK.After working in the oil and gas industry for nearly 40 years, and that means travelling over seas to numerous countries, I have seen first hand how fracking works. Does any one in their right mind really think that the government (with some of the best rules and regulations in the industry) would allow work that compromised the health and safety of the country or its people? Get real. I have no concerns about fracking. Those protesting should give the companies that are doing this work the chance to explain the benefits to everyone. I plan on taking part in protests because the health of my grandson is at stake. The thought of him being at risk of asthma, allergy rashes and cancer causing toxins in both the air and water cause me great concern. Where will all the water come from for the drilling and where will the toxic water be disposed? Whilst some areas safely frack there have been too many accidents and spillages for me to feel confident in the industry and it s alleged safety measures. Who will clean up when the work is finished and the wells start to leak? For two years I have been involved in anti-fracking activities. Like many other people I am trying to preserve the British countryside, a highly valued and valuable asset. It seems outrageous that our government is flying in the face of common sense by encouraging oil and gas companies to carve up our heritage and increase carbon emissions. I am totally opposed to the development of a new fossil fuel energy. We should concentrate on renewable energy sources. Hydraulic fracturing has been shown to have many detrimental effects on the environment. I m concerned by air pollution from the industry and fumes from the high volume of road traffic needed to ferry water to and fro; depletion of our normal water supply due to the high demands put on it by the fracking process; contamination of ground water, and the enormous change in the landscape from rural to industrial. There s also noise and light emissions at unprecedented levels in the countryside which would have a detrimental effect on wildlife as well as human life, as well as the potential for seismic activity. There s the loss of beautiful landscapes for short term financial gain and the loss of tourist and farming industries due to environmental damage. I am very angry that during the last two years I have been anxious about the impending prospect of being able to see well heads from my bedroom window, of the possibility of being unable to sell my house and that I have spent hundreds of hours on frack-free activities instead of doing more pleasurable, useful or enjoyable things in my senior years.I plan to protest because despite overwhelming opposition to fracking in our community, the government wants to impose it upon us. The consequences of fracking are gravely serious and local democracy is being undermined by central government. The industrialisation of our beautiful county and the consequences on the tourist industry are at stake. The potential for our ground water and agricultural land to be irrevocably polluted is too high a price to pay to extract what is essentially a fossil fuel. It s a step back in energy policy. 