The Tesla chief executive, , has unveiled new energy products aimed at illustrating the benefits of combining his firm, which makes electric cars and batteries, with solar installer SolarCity.The billionaire entrepreneur showed off solar roof tiles that eliminate the need for traditional panels and a longer-lasting home battery, which  calls the Powerwall, aimed at realising his vision of selling a fossil fuel-free lifestyle to consumers.  This is sort of the integrated future. An electric car, a Powerwall and a solar roof. The key is it needs to be beautiful, affordable and seamlessly integrated,  Musk said while showcasing the products on homes once used as the set for the US TV drama Desperate Housewives in Los Angeles. Musk is the biggest shareholder in both Tesla and SolarCity, which is run by two of his cousins. Analysts have questioned the deal s proposed synergies, with some suggesting the merger is a way for Tesla to rescue loss-making SolarCity. A vote on the acquisition is due on 17 November. The rollout of the product, expected as soon as next summer, would be  unwieldy  if the two companies are not combined, Musk said. Having two separate companies  slows things down, makes them more expensive. It s worse for shareholders,  he said. Musk declined to answer a reporter s question about how Tesla s balance sheet would accommodate the acquisition of SolarCity. By incorporating solar modules into rooftops, Tesla is hoping to succeed with a solar technology that to date has had little success. Just this year, Dow Chemical said it would stop selling a solar tile it launched five years ago. Tesla s glass solar roof tiles would look far better than any similar product, Musk said. They can be manufactured in a range of styles, which were demonstrated on the rooftops on the set. Tesla gave little detail on cost, except to say that the cost of the roof would be less than a conventional roof plus solar. The product will appeal to home builders and those looking to replace their roofs, Musk said, adding that the shingles would be more durable and have better insulation qualities than conventional roofing. SolarCity co-founder Peter Rive, Musk s cousin, said the solar roofs could easily have a 5% share of the new roof market in a year or two. The new generation of home and industrial batteries will be available this year. 