The South Australian government s plan to direct energy market operators on gas supply and intervene with the national regulator during periods of high demand could be in contravention of the national electricity market.The federal government is taking advice on the SA Labor government s plans, , to address the state s ongoing power outages.The state s policy includes new state ministerial powers to direct a proportion of power sold by retailers that is generated from within . It also allows the minister to direct the Australian  Market Operator (AEMO) to control flow on the South Australia s interconnector, which controls the flow of electricity between states.The energy and environment minister, , accused South Australia of trying to rip up the national electricity agreement.Frydenberg said that, under the national electricity market rules, while the states can declare a state of emergency to intervene, South Australia intends to make it easier to override AEMO.  What SA is today saying is that they won t meet that threshold,  Frydenberg said.  They are talking about a much lower threshold to intervene. Arguably, that may be in contravention with the national electricity market rules and therefore that is something that we will take advice on. South Australian premier Jay Weatherill s $550m energy plan will also fund a new $360m state-owned gas-fired power plant, provide a $150m renewable technology fund add $24m for gas exploration grants. The premier has also pledged to provide 10% of gas royalties to landholders who allow access for conventional gas and fracking development.The plan attracted mixed reactions with energy companies welcoming more gas development while green groups criticised the state s investment in a state-owned gas plant. However, industry and environment groups were united in calling for the federal government to provide more certainty though a national energy policy.The federal government has charged Australia s chief scientist,  national energy security and he will report later this year. However, Malcolm Turnbull already ruled out an emissions intensity scheme (EIS) after conservative members of his party room objected to an industry wide carbon price. At the same time, energy companies, the , , the retailer Energy Australia, the , the Climate Change Authority,  and the CSIRO have all supported an EIS.Matthew Warren, of the Australian  Council, said the South Australian plan was treating the symptoms of no national energy strategy and states could not solve the problem on their own. Many features of its energy plan would be made redundant by effective national energy policy reform,  Warren said.  This would be a win for all consumers and remains the fastest and cheapest way of fixing Australia s energy crisis. But Warren echoed Frydenberg s comments on the plan to provide greater ministerial powers, saying it was unclear how the South Australian government could intervene in the national market. It would be much more preferable if we could agree on revised operating rules for the existing market operator,  Warren said. He said the SA government s plan to force retailers to source a proportion of energy from within the state would increase costs.The senior Labor frontbencher and South Australian senator Penny Wong said the South Australian plan was providing the national leadership required in the absence of a national policy.She rejected Frydenberg s assertion that South Australia s energy issues stemmed from the state s 50% renewable energy target. The problem is the market, the national electricity market, which is not designed to reflect the reality of increased renewables coming on stream in a far greater proportion than was originally envisaged,  Wong said.The last bipartisanship we had on energy policy was in 2009 before Abbott tore down Turnbull. And it s time Malcolm Turnbull rediscovered some of that, because a sensible long term approach to this market, that frankly the private sector is calling out for, they are calling out for leadership. In the first federal government reaction to the plan, Frydenberg said the policy was a warning sign for other states which with high renewable energy targets.  There was an insufficient planning and the provision of the necessary skills and systems in place in SA to deal with the high uptake of intermittent sources of generation, namely wind and solar,  Frydenberg said. We established, some 20 years ago, a national electricity market in order to ensure that the lowest cost electricity was dispatched in five minute intervals.  Today, South Australia wants to rip up that national agreement and in doing so will only drive up prices for its people as well as those in other states. The Greens  energy and climate spokesman, Adam Bandt, welcomed the support for battery storage and greater powers to intervene in the market but was critical of the state s heavy reliance on gas as a transition fuel.  Jay Weatherill has caved into the Turnbull renewables scare campaign by shifting to gas instead of building solar thermal in Port Augusta,  Bandt said.  We should have a government-owned solar thermal plant. Instead of a generator dependent on expensive gas, which risks being a white elephant like the South Australian and Victorian desalination plants. 