The resources minister, , has taken aim at a number of outspoken Labor candidates who oppose new coalmines and called on Bill Shorten to clarify the party s position., Peter Hayes, tweeted:  [Australia s] defence of coal mining and export is in the same league as heroin poppy cultivation and exports elsewhere! It also highlighted comments opposing new coalmines and the Adani mine in Queensland from Labor candidates in Indi, Ryan and Wide Bay.Speaking on Radio National on Tuesday, Frydenberg said:  This is a real test now for Bill Shorten, because he s got a whole series of candidates who are challenging his authority on the issue of coal. He s got his North Sydney candidate that has equated coalmining with heroin and he s got his other candidates in Wide Bay, Indi, Ryan and others making similar statements. Fran Kelly noted  and Shorten was not opposed to it but had said it was a commercial decision that should be made after proper approvals.Frydenberg accused Shorten of  hypocrisy  because Labor was running advertisements in Queensland with the Liberal logo turning Green  saying we re in some sort of partnership . And it s really his candidate and party that are sending a finger upwards to the people who have jobs in the coalmining industry. It s up to Bill Shorten to say whether he supports jobs and whether he supports his Labor colleagues in Queensland who do support the Adani mine. Frydenberg said Labor was  trying to walk on both sides of the street  by allowing certain candidates to voice opposition to coalmines.On Monday on ABC s Q&A program, the Greens leader,  that threaten the Great Barrier Reef was  the great tragedy  of . I tell you what we won t be doing is opening up a new coalmine and killing the ,  Di Natale said to applause from the Brisbane audience.  If you care about tourism you don t open up a whopping great big coalmine and fuel catastrophic global warming. A Labor spokesperson said conventional fuels would be an important part of the future energy mix but the party would encourage the transition to renewables through a target of 50% renewable energy by 2030.  Whether a particular mining project proceeds is a commercial decision and mining approvals are generally a matter for state governments, with matters of national environmental importance needing commonwealth government approval.  As we did in government, Labor will ensure that any proposed mining projects meet the highest environmental standards before providing environmental approval. Frydenberg said coal was coming down as a proportion of energy use and the International  Agency estimated it would drop from 40% of energy production today to 30% in 2040.Although coal as a proportion of global energy use is declining,  by 40% by 2040, with Australia forecast to regain its ranking as the world s top coal exporter by 2030. In Australia we ve seen eight of the 12 of most emissions-intensive coal-fired power stations that have closed in the last five years, so there is a change both internationally and domestically,  Frydenberg said. But it s an industry that creates 40,000 jobs and its our second-largest export, [worth] $38bn.  is absolutely critical. Australia s coal is a cleaner form of coal than other countries, it s low in sulphur and ash. The stoush over coal comes as  as  woefully inadequate  in its election scorecard.It gave the  11 points out of a possible 100, Labor 53 and the Greens 77. It considered a range of factors including pollution targets to help limit global warming to less than 1.5C above pre-industrial temperatures; stopping uranium mining and export; delivering on the Murray-Darling basin plan; and shifting to 100% renewable energy by 2050.A spokesman for the foundation said Labor was unlikely to better its score over the campaign because it still supported the building of new coalmines and the burning of fossil fuels.Frydenberg responded to the Coalition s poor environmental score by stating Australia was transitioning to renewable energy and the government had set up a $1bn innovation fund for renewable energy.