The prime minister, , says his government has done more in this past year than the Coalition did in the previous three under the leadership of Tony Abbott.He has also mounted a defence of coal-powered electricity, saying those who think the resource does not have a future are  delusional .On Saturday, Turnbull spruiked his successes in parliament since winning the 2016 election, despite only having a wafer-thin majority.Speaking at the Liberal National party s state convention in Brisbane, he said he wasn t shy to list his achievements. Believe me, my friends, we have done more in the last year than we did in the previous three,  he told members and delegates.Even with just 29 of 76 seats in the Senate, Turnbull noted he had restored the building industry watchdog, cut taxes for small and medium businesses, improved the childcare system and introduced a . We are taking real action to deliver the results that Australians need,  he said.The deputy prime minister, , passionately called on his colleagues in Queensland get behind Turnbull   labelling him their one and only captain.He said it was a hard job being the prime minister, with so many divergent interests at play. But he is unrelenting,  Joyce said.  We ve got to get behind him now. We are going to run out into this paddock and we will run out with one captain and it s going to be Malcolm Turnbull. It comes a day after the Nationals leader told federal Liberals to drop  bullshit arguments  and .He told Guardian Australia on Friday that the war of words between Turnbull and Abbott would hurt the Liberal-Nationals in Queensland.Turnbull hit out at the Queensland Labor government s  reckless  plans to ensure the state s energy supply is carbon neutral by 2050 and said Australia had an interest in ensuring the future of coal. Those people who say coal and other fossil fuels have no future are delusional and they fly in the face of all of the economic forecasts,  he told the crowd of party faithful.A few days ago, the former US vice-president and climate change campaigner  had said  .He also said providing funding for infrastructure to support the Adani coal mine was  just nuts .  Globally, the world is moving rapidly away from subsidies to fossil fuels,  he said.  It would be odd if Australia went in the opposite direction and subsidised coal. It s impolitic of me to say it, but it would be crazy. Turnbull s sentiments were greeted with applause by the crowd, who had a day earlier passed a resolution urging a future state LNP government to promote and support the coal industry.The convention is also considering a resolution to call on the Turnbull government to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord, which is likely to be debated on Sunday.Turnbull devoted a significant portion of his 20-minute address to energy policy, warning of the impact of renewables on power prices and the security of the electricity grid.He said Queensland s efforts to source 50% of its electricity supply by 2030 would take it down the path of South Australia, which has been hit by high prices and supply issues. We know what happens if you allow left-wing ideology and politics to drive your energy policy. You get unreliable and unaffordable power, and business is driven out of your state,  he told the crowd. Now, what the Palaszczuk government is seeking to do here is undermine your competitiveness in the interests of chasing green votes in the inner city and you can t allow them to get away with it, and we won t. He said that as the world s largest exporter of coal, Australia had an interest in demonstrating that  clean  coal could play a role in a low-emissions energy future.