The North  police and crime commissioner has been accused of  cronyism  after his force withdrew from policing anti-fracking protests following his intervention.Arfon Jones, a member of Plaid Cymru and former police inspector, was an anti-fracking campaigner before being elected to the police and crime commissioner job last year. North Wales police announced they would stop helping officers in nearby Lancashire police a , citing  high demands in north Wales over the holiday season . The site has been home to hundreds of protesters since last October, when the government overruled Lancashire county council and permitted Cuadrilla to begin drilling. It is due to start within a month.Welcoming the withdrawal of North Wales officers, Jones said:  I was told last week there would be no further deployments after I made representations around capacity issues in North Wales and questioned how could we justify sending officers to Lancashire in those circumstances.  Why should officers from North Wales be sent to police and facilitate an activity where the activity is more or less unlawful in their own country? The decision not to send any more officers from North Wales after this week may be down to a number of factors, my opposition only being one factor. Pro-fracking group Backing  said it was disgraceful that Jones thought he could  use his political appointment to try to downgrade the policing response to the fracking protests . It added:  That s the definition of cronyism. Lancashire police said this month the demonstration would receive round-the-clock policing, with 50 to 80 officers attending each day. So far six other nearby forces have been supporting Lancashire.Clashes between protesters and security guards have increased since the beginning of July when activists marked what they called a month of  rolling resistance , which hopes to delay work on test wells., footage circulated online of activist Nick Sheldrick, a former naval officer, being tipped backwards from his wheelchair as police tried to move him away from an approaching truck.Jones said he opposed fracking as he considered it  a danger in many respects but mainly because of potential pollution of water . He said:  I was a prominent member of Frack Free Wrexham and campaigned strongly and eventually successfully to prevent [fracking firm] IGas carrying out exploratory drilling at Borras [near Wrexham]. I was also prominent in lobbying the Welsh government to issue a moratorium over fracking in Wales, which they did, and will continue to lobby them to utilise new powers delegated to them over energy to ban fracking in line with other European countries. 