The most important sign of a broken market is one in which, when the cost of supplying consumers falls, big corporates simply pocket the difference rather than passing on the savings to their customers. This is exactly what has been happening in our energy market.  between 2013 and 2016. Yet consumers on the big six energy companies  default tariffs did not see prices drop significantly. And now that wholesale prices have started to increase from their lower base, many of these consumers are facing eye-watering price increases: this week, electricity prices by 15%.Our energy market is fundamentally uncompetitive. The vast majority of consumers   70%   are left languishing on the expensive default tariffs offered by the big six providers. ; more than half of consumers have never switched supplier, did not know if they had done so or did not even know it was possible.The result is a toxic  rocket and feathers  dynamic: prices rocket up when wholesale energy prices rise, but fail to fall when they come down, and consumer bills get ratcheted up to ever-higher levels.The resulting consumer detriment is staggering. The  (CMA) last year estimated consumers overpaid  2bn in 2015, equivalent to a halfpenny rise on income tax, and that consumers on default tariffs could save  330 a year on average by switching to another supplier.Even switching from a variable to a cheaper fixed tariff offered by the same provider . It is a ludicrous market that allows the majority of consumers to miss out on these savings simply because they have not picked up the phone to their supplier. And it is low-income consumers who are hardest hit: energy makes up almost 10% of budgets in the poorest households, but they are far less likely to switch.The price increases could not come at a worse time. Many families are experiencing falling incomes as a result of sluggish earnings growth   average earnings are now    and tax credit cuts. Meanwhile, energy suppliers are pocketing record levels of profit: Iberdrola, the parent company of Scottish Power,.In the face of highly effective lobbying by the big six, regulator action has been too slow and too weak. Despite identifying immense consumer detriment in its two-year review, the CMA failed to produce any robust solutions to stop consumers getting ripped off. The temporary  is welcome. But the CMA stepped back from a price cap for consumers on overpriced default tariffs, instead recommending that the details of consumers on these tariffs for more than three years should be included on a database made available to other providers, in order to promote more switching. But insights from behavioural science make it highly questionable that subjecting consumers to a deluge of junk mail will be an effective way of encouraging them to switch.Ofgem, the industry regulator, has no real power to stop the latest round of increases that it rightly sees as unjustified. And so consumers continue to be ripped off by powerful utility companies with little intervention from regulators.A group of cross-party MPs has secured a  onThursday. As Caroline Flint, one of the co-sponsors, will argue, the government must mandate Ofgem to introduce a temporary price cap for customers on default tariffs. Without this, consumer bills will continue to rise. The cap should be indexed to the variable cost of wholesale energy and the fixed cost of supply and allow a margin for companies to cover their variable costs, such as metering, plus a reasonable profit. It should remain in place until there is evidence of developments that would sustain a more competitive market.Energy companies have had more than a decade to demonstrate that unregulated prices deliver value for customers. They have failed. Price regulation is a widely accepted form of consumer protection in other utility markets, such as water. It is common in energy markets across the EU and would bring the energy market in England, Scotland and Wales, where price regulation has led to consumers experiencing significant drops in their bills.What the government must not do is give into pressure from the big six to reduce bills by cutting back on green levies. There is a danger that once Britain is no longer bound by the EU s carbon reduction targets, the government picks the easier fight of reducing green levies rather than tackling big six profits. There was a hint of this in last week s budget small print, which announced that significant changes to levies will come later in the year.There is certainly scope to make green levies, which tend to hit the poorest customers disproportionately, . But they are critical in ensuring a transition to a low carbon economy and must not be cut altogether. Ofgem has that government policy is adding significantly to supplier costs.For too long, the big six energy providers have been allowed to milk consumers in the name of competition, in a market that has remained fundamentally uncompetitive. This cannot be allowed to continue. The government must reinstate price regulation until there is convincing evidence that market forces will provide value for consumers rather than unfairly enriching corporate profits.