The leaked release of the Labour party election manifesto (, 11 May) has prompted predicable claims from the right that Jeremy Corbyn wants to take the country back to the 1970s, forgetting to mention that this was a time when corporations and high earners contributed a fairer share to the public purse and we had a functioning welfare state and regulated public utilities providing essential services. The Conservatives are also pushing to return to the 70s, the 1770s, and Adam Smith s manifesto for market fundamentalism, The Wealth of Nations, published in 1776. Smith believed that market transactions were governed by a hidden guiding hand that moderated selfishness and, freed from government restraint, business always operated in the public interest. He was tragically mistaken. As recent experience confirms, without strong regulation, progressive taxation and a vibrant public sector, unscrupulous corporations will take the money and run, avoiding tax, exploiting workers, overcharging customers and demanding savage cuts to welfare and public services to pay for their mistakes. The coming election offers us a stark choice between two histories and two futures. The Guardian has (, 10 May) continued its long-running lament of Jeremy Corbyn s lack of credibility and leadership credentials. But it was, if anything, symptomatic of the Guardian s own loss of credibility since Corbyn first became leader of the Labour party. Caught between a burgeoning anti-austerity movement and the  sensible  middle ground of neoliberal politics, the paper has opted to remain loyal to the latter   however hopelessly devoid of ideas and solutions to the current crises in health, housing, the environment and economy.Meanwhile, the Conservatives have based their election campaign so far on little more than glib sound bites repeated ad nauseam and the only policies they actually want to talk about are ones they have stolen from Labour. Theresa May knows that when it comes to policies, she has already lost the argument. No wonder she has refused to debate with  in an election that is supposedly all about leadership credentials.Rather than call her out on this refusal, or question why she is perceived as such a  credible  leader when she has co-opted not only the policies but also the rhetoric of Corbyn (eg The Conservative party is going to deliver for everyone not just the privileged few   , 25 February), the Guardian continues to buy into a dominant press narrative that is so ingratiating of an incumbent leader as to be the envy of dictators around the world. For traditional Labour voters like me   someone who has not voted Labour since the Iraq war   this suddenly sounds like why I joined the Labour party, became a Labour councillor and voted  in the first place. By leaking this document, people may just have longer to think about it   maybe they will remember that the rich didn t used to own the country s resources and you didn t used to have to spend half your time switching between one rip-off company and another. The leak may remind people that they used to be able to afford to travel by train and rely on the NHS. With this leak, the centrists could have shot themselves in the foot with Jeremy Corbyn for the second time. At long last a Labour manifesto that puts the party back into the centre ground of politics. No longer wedded to the neoliberal agenda, Labour seems ready to break with the politics of Thatcherism that has dominated politics since the 1980s. A commitment to a mixed economy and a belief in a strong welfare state are the hallmarks of Labour s manifesto. These two fundamental principles were the bedrock of all mainstream political parties from the ending of the war until the move to the right initiated by Margaret Thatcher.Of course, Labour s embracing of what was the mainstream will not be welcomed by those in high places and their acolytes in the press. Such moderate reforms as Labour is proposing will be called  Marxist  and  extreme . In reality, all Jeremy Corbyn and his supporters seem to be doing is offering voters a choice, of a return to the centre ground or the continuation of neoliberalism. I struggle to understand the fuss about Labour s proposal to nationalise the rail and energy businesses. I live in South Wales where I use Arriva Trains and EDF energy, both of which are nationalised companies. It is just that one is a nationalised German company (Deutsche Bahn owns Arriva ) while EDF is wholly owned by the French government. The problem is they want to make money out of the UK rather than invest in it.