The latest  community support  offer from the Treasury (, 8 August) for those areas having fracking rigs installed is truly a Russian roulette gamble for local people. An article in the , headlined  Rise of deadly radon gas in Pennsylvania buildings linked to fracking industry , reported on a detailed study in the journal Environmental Health Perspective that revealed a  disturbing correlation  between unusually high levels of radon gas in mostly residences and fracking that has become the industry standard over the past decade.Moreover, this is what :  If the natural gas delivery point were to be close to the extraction point with a short transit time, radon present in the natural gas would have little time to decay   there is therefore the potential for radon gas to be present in natural gas extracted from UK shale.  This health trade-off for money is what this offer really asks residents to accept. In light of this clear precautionary approach, it is odd that all ministers seem to be uncritically cheerleading for expanded fracking, despite its possible radon risk. Who will be eligible for the compensation payments in fracked areas? Landlords, tenants? If it s to cover the inevitable drop in house values, it s not enough. If it applies to tenants, can I move into an affected area, take the money, then move on or will there be a length of residency requirement? Will each adult in a household get the payment or will it only apply to council tax payers? For those worried about future environmental issues, can they get extra if they have children? Will sick and disabled residents with less chance of moving away from the area be given priority when the timescale is worked out? What will be the radius of the area attracting payment? Will the scheme be extended to those living near proposed telecom base stations, nuclear power plants etc? Will beneficiaries be obliged to sign an undertaking that they will never take any legal action against the government or fracking companies relating to future pollution problems or other detrimental impacts? Given that we apparently don t have enough civil servants to cope with Brexit negotiations, will the assessments be farmed out to an Atos-type organisation? If so, is this another scheme designed to transfer public money to private companies? Rather than compensating communities for fracking, it would be perverse if individual households who might be completely oblivious about fracking over a mile underneath their property were compensated, unlike those living alongside local back roads who could suffer serious disturbance. Local highways budgets are tightly stretched enough without proposals with little idea of the impact on different transport corridors depending on the subsurface geology, which in some cases has not been properly mapped since the 1880s.A prime example is Holderness in East Yorkshire, recently covered by an Environment Agency-commissioned British Geological Survey report to gain a better understanding of shallow groundwater movements and flood risk without fresh 1:10,000 geological mapping. Based on random borehole data, the composite geological map shows hitherto unmapped superficial deposits, including gravel in Beverly adjacent to some chalk rather than glacial till still shown on the bowdlerized online  of Britain viewer, which promptly contracts itself when you pick though the borehole records.There is a wealth of difference between 21st century scientific methods and hand watercoloured Victorian geological maps. And yet in its wisdom the BGS has ended systematic geological mapping, without which it is impossible to maintain enough staff with a detailed knowledge of regional ground conditions with which to advise the public and local planners. It would probably only cost around  50m to complete the third of Britain without high quality coverage compared to potentially squandering a  1bn compensating the wrong people. The final letter was amended on 11 August 2016 to add a missing million on the figure of  50m.