The government may be open to facilitating gas swaps, in which export contracts are fulfilled using overseas gas, to keep more for Australia s domestic supply.The resources and northern Australia minister, Matt Canavan, told Radio National on Monday evening it was realistic that the government could help private companies arrange swaps and the idea was part of its consultation with industry.The proposal was  and has been supported by Labor s Bill Shorten as part of the solution to a looming gas  crisis  he said threatened Australian jobs.On Tuesday Labor s climate change spokesman, Mark Butler, said the government should be open to establishing a national gas reservation policy if all other regulatory measures failed.Ai Group noted  there are large volumes of gas available on international spot LNG markets  at what it called  modest  prices, but domestic supply was  extremely tight .It suggested that commitments made by Australian exporters to overseas customers could be met with gas from outside eastern Australia, freeing up local gas to be sold into the domestic market.Ai Group noted potential barriers to the swap plan including uncertain contract terms, but suggested the government could help overcome these by acting as  a neutral and trusted player able to acquire and collate the necessary information, much of which is highly commercially sensitive .Ai Group also favoured a national interest test for gas exports, which Labor took as its policy to the 2016 election.Shorten said Australia needed to do  everything we reasonably can to ensure Australian manufacturers can access domestic gas at a decent price . The government should help facilitate an arrangement where LNG ventures that are not currently net suppliers to Australia should be able to voluntarily come to arrangements where Australian gas is  swapped out  for international gas, and diverted back to Australian customers. Shorten said the plan would mean  cheaper, more secure gas and ensure contracts are honoured . The government must play an active part in a deal that will see gas diverted back to Australian industry. On Monday, Canavan said he had not looked at the Ai Group proposal in detail yet, but he accepted that more needed to be done. He said the government had  and he would get an update this week on their efforts to do so. If that doesn t happen, we have said that we reserve our rights ... on powers over exports,  he said, suggesting that  although he said it was not the preferred outcome.Asked about swap arrangements, Canavan said he  had detailed conversations with gas-producing companies about those types of options . Obviously it s a matter for commercial negotiation, those details, it s not for the government to negotiate gas contracts with users in Asia.  But certainly the type of arrangements the AiG are foreshadowing there are realistic, and they are at the heart of discussions between the government and industry. Canavan summarised the proposal by saying that the domestic gas price is  often quite a bit higher  than in Korea and Japan, creating a potential arbitrage where producers could  buy low and sell high ... if you can supply it from other sources  such as Qatar or the United States.Canavan also talked up the possibility that a potential $900m concessional loan from the Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility could open up the Galilee basin to projects beyond the Adani . He said this could create up to 15,000 direct jobs. Challenged on the claim, Canavan said the figure came from  detailed modelling and the environmental impact statements  of the adjoining proposed projects.Butler told ABC radio on Tuesday Labor believed  all regulatory options need to be on the table    including a formal gas reservation policy   if the government failed to secure the gas swap idea on a consensual basis. But we re not convinced that government has yet gone the full way in ensuring that the [gas] partners overseas understand our level of resolve here,  he said. As the AiG points out, we re actually in the fortunate position where there s a lot of gas at cheaper prices available on the international market that should make this swap quite a viable option,  he said.Although the government has been spruiking the figure of 3,000 jobs to come from the Adani mine, .Canavan said he accepted there was always  uncertainty in life  and made an analogy between the uncertainty on the number of jobs created and the stability of his marriage. I hope I stay married to my wife and have a great relationship with my kids, but I can t foretell the future ... I think I ll stay married to my wife and I do think the Galilee basin will be developed. So there s always risk,  he said, suggesting the rail line was appropriate for public subsidy because governments were the ones that could  take that risk on board .