The government  can t guarantee  gas prices will fall as a result of its export restrictions, environment minister Josh Frydenberg has said, just one day after  said wholesale prices should halve.In an interview on 3AW in Melbourne, Turnbull refused to promise an elderly caller that her gas bills would be cut, only that the policy would put  downward pressure on wholesale prices  which are a portion of her bill.On Thursday the government , acting on advice from the Australian Energy Market Operator and the competition regulator that a shortage existed.The plan was praised by Australian industrial gas users but  that threatened investment in gas production.Speaking from the United States where he had met the US energy secretary, Rick Perry, Frydenberg defended the export restriction plan in an interview on ABC s AM.He said that although he had previously labelled a gas reservation scheme an  investment killer , the export restriction would allow Australia to meet  without the  blunt mechanism  of reservation.Frydenberg said the gas market was in crisis because companies were being offered gas at $20 a kilajoule, three or four times previous prices, putting 60,000 jobs at risk.The environment minister pointed the finger at  jobs-destroying gas bans and moratoria  imposed by state governments, echoing the Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association s call for more gas development.On Thursday  as a result of the new export restrictions.At a later media conference, Turnbull clarified that if the wholesale price for gas in Australia was based on the export price  it would be less than half $20 . This is not saying that all gas prices will be halved as a result of these changes,  he said.  Wholesale gas, for example, if you re a household, a family, the wholesale price of gas is between 15 and 20% of the cost on your gas bill because the gas company has to get the gas to you. Frydenberg noted Turnbull had  never said prices will halve for all gas users  and suggested that the export restriction would put  downward pressure  on wholesale gas prices, which can make up 20-25% of the retail price. Some businesses ... are being quoted $20 a gigajoule and that should come down dramatically. The price should be half of that over time. Asked if he could guarantee price falls, Frydenberg said:  We can t guarantee price in relation to any industry, what we can guarantee is that this mechanism will put more gas into the domestic market. Asked if he stood by his claim of halving wholesale prices, Turnbull said Bill Shorten had misrepresented him and he had said only that  if the domestic market is adequately supplied, and that s what the export measures ... are going to do, that s their objective then the price should be around half [$20 a gigajoule] or less . That is confirmed by industry experts ... Tony Wood from the Grattan Institute in Melbourne confirms that. He said $10 a gigajoule was the export price and Australian wholesale customers should not be paying a different price.Asked about his meeting with Perry, Frydenberg said they had discussed reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the importance of renewables, including wind, getting community support for unconventional gas, and carbon capture and storage.On Friday Energy Networks Australia  in a report that found clear policy settings could save Australian energy customers $100bn, and allow a smooth transition to large-scale use of renewable energy and the prospect of Australia s electricity sector achieving zero net carbon emissions by 2050.Asked about the report, Frydenberg said the government  had made it very clear we won t be taking up an emissions intensity scheme  and believed it could meet 2020 and 2030 greenhouse gas reduction targets with its current policies. One of the problems with an EIS ... is that it is based on very cheap gas, which we know is not available at the moment. It s also prefaced on the ... forced closure of more than half a dozen coal-fired power stations. Coal, while it is a declining percentage of the overall energy mix, does remain a very important source of baseload power, providing the stability the system needs. 