What do you look for when you re searching for a new home? If you are like most buyers and renters, you re looking for something in the right location, at the right price, near the right amenities that somehow feels like home. While these subjective features can be difficult for real estate agents to tap into, there are other aspects of a property that agents can take to the bank.According to research by the CSIRO and  for the Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) for Low Carbon Living s  due to be released at the end of June, 92% of housing consumers would like information on the energy efficiency of homes from service providers as part of sale and lease processes. Furthermore 89% said that an energy-efficient home would be more attractive to buy or rent.Australian consumers are following the lead of those in the  and  and putting their money where their mouths are, with the survey showing that more than half (56%) would be willing to pay for energy-efficiency information, and 44% said that they would pay up to $250. With such a strong consumer-led push for green houses, and mounting evidence that sustainable features can , it seems that real estate agents need simply to showcase the environmental credentials of a property to make more money. However, there are still relatively few listings that do inform potential buyers/renters of a property s efficiency or sustainability.  As such, the CSIRO has recently acquired the  and the intellectual property for its sustainability framework from Hooker Corporationto better highlight the green features of properties for sale or lease. Originally developed by the real estate agency LJ Hooker in collaboration with sustainable design and construction industries, the framework was expanded last year to provide training, research, strategy and communication services to the whole residential real estate industry. Specifically the sustainability framework helps real estate agents promote at the point of sale or rent the features that could help reduce running costs and increase comfort. For example it highlights covering energy and water efficiency (such as solar panels, rainwater tanks, water-efficiency devices, glazed windows, shading and insulation, among others) that can be validatedby a trained agent. If a property has at least six of these 17 features, it can feature a Liveability Property Features icon on its rental or sales listing.To date, 458 real estate agents have become Liveability specialists and 292 properties have been listed with the icon within LJ Hooker. And according to the real estate company, 96% of these trained agents would recommend it to their peers.However, not all in the industry are convinced sustainability is a priority for buyers or renters. Angus Raine, executive chairman of real estate agency Raine & Horne, said that although he applauds the CSIRO for its interest in the property market, he thinks that while some buyers may take an interest in a property s energy efficiency, it remains a second-tier consideration for most. We are still finding that most property buyers base their decision making on the choice between a house or an apartment, the price of a property, its proximity to schools, hospitals, transport and other amenities, how many bedrooms and bathrooms it has and so on,  he says.  [But] we recognise real estate sustainability might be a secondary issue for some buyers. But for the CSIRO, which already works on residential energy efficiency and low emissions technology through programs such as the  (Nationwide House Energy Rating Scheme) benchmark tool, such a framework is needed to improve sustainability awareness within the 9.6m Australian residences responsible for approximately 11% of our greenhouse gas emissions.Anthony Wright, CSIRO s principal research consultant for energy, hopes the framework would not only help push education on the need for sustainable property, but also help generate more research data on existing building stock. Our intention is to understand the value proposition of sustainability in property better, because it s one of the keys to transforming housing stock in the longer term [and] getting people to really value sustainability in their housing,  he says.  Although we d like to be able to say categorically that we think the framework would save x amount of tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, I don t think we re at that point yet in its development. That s something we ll have to work on and learn to codify as we progress with the framework. A relaunch of the centre and consumer portal  are expected in the next few months, after which the existing framework will be extended to include online training and exclusive membership services to be provided directly to real estate agents.