The Dutch advertising watchdog will on Tuesday censure Shell and Exxon for claiming that natural gas was  the cleanest of all fossil fuels  in an advert earlier this year. It will be the second time this summer that the  advertising standards board has ruled against the fossil fuels industry, after it slapped down Statoil in June for calling gas a  clean energy  and  low emissions fuel . In a bid to pre-empt the latest ruling, online versions of the advert were changed a few weeks ago to redefine gas as  the least polluting fossil fuel . The Dutch watchdog waived punitive action against the NAM company, which is part-owned by Shell and Exxon, in that light. Paul de Clerk of Friends of the Earth , which co-filed the complaint with Milieudefensie, said:  This clear ruling by the advertisement standards board is of great importance. Time after time we see how oil and gas companies are misleading citizens and politicians. They want us to believe that gas is clean and they support the transition to renewable energy. Behind the screens we see how the same companies lobby against this transition. To prevent catastrophic climate change we need to end the dependency on all fossil fuels   including gas.  The issue is highly contentious, after a Trump administration push for gas  at a G20 summit in July split the meeting.The US disassociated itself from the final communique,  saying that it would help countries  access and use fossil fuels more cleanly and efficiently. But gas is seen by many policy-makers as a  bridging fuel  to a renewable-powered future and the EU s research wing has also described it as , making  on that basis.Natural gas emits around half as much carbon dioxide as coal when burned, although this is still far more than from renewables.But the picture is less clear when it includes methane   a short-lived but much more potent greenhouse gas   which one recent study found was being emitted by gas plants at levels up to .The ruling by the Dutch Advertising Code Authority, which the Guardian has seen, found that  the absolute term  cleanest fossil fuel  is not in line with the MRC [Dutch advertising code]. It is suggested that fossil fuels can be clean in that they do not cause environmental damage. It is firm   and recognised by NAM   that that suggestion is not correct. Antonetta van Beem, a spokeswoman for NAM, said her company s decision to change the advert was not an admission that the original had been misleading.