The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) has announced the findings of an  into the energy market. It concluded customers are being overcharged by  1.7bn a year in total and suggested measures to make the market more competitive.The two main proposals are a price cap for households who get their gas and electricity supplied through pre-payment meters, and a new database of customers who have been paying their provider s standard tariff for more than three years. The database would be available to rivals who could contact these people   described by the regulator as  disengaged domestic customers    and offer them a better deal.Not calls. The database would include your name and what tariff you are currently on, plus your postal address. You could be. All registered energy providers would have access to the database and there are currently 37 of those, so the 36 you are not with could all get in touch. The CMA admits there is a trade-off between encouraging more switching and ensuring customers aren t subject to excess or misleading marketing from firms. It said the database would be controlled by the energy regulator Ofgem and that customers could opt out of being listed on it. It adds that it would  put in place safeguards to ensure that such data is used appropriately . Providers would have to meet certain standards when they contact customers, which could include a limit on how many letters they send. They have been warned that a failure to do so could mean they lose access to the database. Martin Lewis, founder of website MoneySaving Expert, said:  The great worry is that people will be bombarded with what feels like spam from so many companies, the message will be drowned out by shouting. Yes. Everyone who has been on a standard tariff for at least three years will be sent a letter telling them about the database. At this point they can say that they do not want to be added. If they do not reply, they will be added, but they can ask to be removed whenever they want.If you switch to a new provider you will be removed.The CMA found that around 70% of customers are on a standard variable tariff and there were  material, persistent gains from switching supplier, tariff and/or payment method  that were being missed out on. If customers did switch, the CMA found that they could be at least  300 a year better off. Furthermore, 30% of the standard variable tariff customers who were with the big six energy providers had been on the relatively deal for more than five years.If you have never moved and are on your provider s standard tariffs you could save hundreds of pounds a year, so it is worth considering a move.Price comparison sites will offer you an idea of the best deal for your usage, but there are some changes in the pipeline for them too. The CMA is proposing that they no longer list all of the details on the market, but tell customers upfront which providers they are showing. It said this could help the sites negotiate better deals with energy companies and make the sites easier to navigate.It is also proposing that comparison sites are given access to customers  meter numbers   this will make it easier for people to switch.They will probably end up paying more, said Lewis.  The CMA has gone with the switching route, saying firms can offer as many tariffs as they like to target different markets, and exclusive deals which will help to re-engage people with switching,  he said.  But of course this means people who don t switch are already paying on average  300 more and that gap is likely to grow. That means if you don t act, you will pay a fine for apathy. Yes. Customers who pay upfront for their energy have long paid more, even though they are often the people who can least afford high prices. . The regulator is proposing a temporary price control for these 4 million households, which it said would reduce their bills by a total of  300m a year. This will be from 2017 until the end of 2020. After that, it said the customers would benefit from other measures to improve competition   including removing restrictions on the ability of new suppliers to compete for prepayment customers   and from the roll-out of smart meters. 