The Australian  Market Operator has warned that Australia is facing energy shortages if governments do not carry out national planning as exports continue to dominate the country s gas supply.The  predicts New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia will be impacted from the summer of 2018-19 and warns that the tightening of the domestic gas market will have flow-on effects to the electricity sector unless there is an increase in gas supplies and development.It also warns that rising gas and electricity prices could threaten the financial viability of commercial and industrial businesses. The report found that even new supply   with rising gas production costs   was unlikely to provide much relief and could still lead to business closures. If we do nothing, we re going to see shortfalls in gas, we re going to see shortfalls in electricity,  Aemo s chief operating officer, Mike Cleary, told the ABC.Malcolm Turnbull said he was concerned about potential gas shortages and will be calling east coast gas companies together for a meeting next week. I ll be urgently calling the chief executives of the east coast gas companies together, to explain how they plan on addressing this threat to their customers,  Turnbull told a business forum on Thursday., Cleary said:  At a time when LNG export is dominating demand and supply of gas in eastern states, strategic national planning of gas development has never been more critical for maintaining domestic energy supply adequacy across both gas and electricity sectors. He said a national policy was required because the gas and electricity markets could no longer be viewed in isolation. The overall convergence of energy markets in eastern and south-eastern Australia demands a single energy view from a national perspective,  Cleary said.  It requires holistic planning across the entire supply chain to enable investment decisions to be made in the long-term interests of consumers. Australia is one of the top 20 gas producing countries in the world but the energy and environment minister, , blamed lack of domestic supply on unconventional gas moratoriums in states including NSW and Victoria and a conventional gas moratorium in Victoria. We have a real challenge in Australia s gas market and that s coming from a confluence of factors, particularly the state-based moratoriums on gas exploration particularly on unconventional gas but also in the state of Victoria on conventional gas,  he said. This is drying up production and exploration. But we also export two-thirds of what we produce and that has led to higher parity pricing in a very tight gas market.  So what we need is more supply and more gas suppliers and that s why we as a federal government are imploring these state governments to lift their moratoriums and get more gas out of the ground. The Aemo report suggested options to resolving the energy shortage include redirecting exported gas for domestic supply, increasing production and exploration from existing fields, exploring new fields and building the northern gas pipeline.  Energy supply shortfalls could also be mitigated in the short term by an increase in coal-fired generation and renewable energy output, combined with an uptake in technologies such as battery storage, together with increased gas production and the possibility of LNG exporters redirecting a small portion of their gas production to the domestic market,  Cleary said.The report said domestic gas price signals could give Queensland LNG producers incentive to supply gas, previously contracted for export LNG, to the domestic market.Frydenberg again ruled out a domestic gas reservation, as happens in many other gas-producing countries such as the US, Israel and Indonesia as well as in the state of Western Australia, on the grounds that it would stop companies developing new projects.  The issue in Australia has always been that it would be a deterrent to further investment if you were going to restrict the gas merely for domestic supply as opposed [to] for international export,  he said.But he praised the  for development for domestic supply only. I have recently seen what has happened in Queensland where that state government has offered a tenement for companies to invest in if that case is supplied domestically,  Frydenberg told ABC s AM. I think that is quite a creative way forward because it doesn t introduce the possibility of sovereign risk because it doesn t effect existing investments but it does encourage further investments to supply the domestic market. Frydenberg said gas was increasingly important, not just in households and manufacturing but because it supplied 20% of Australia s electricity. Increasingly gas is in demand because it is setting the price of power as more renewables come into the system so we really do need urgently to get more gas and more gas suppliers because we need more competition between these companies into the market,  he said.