The  government has reportedly offered Adani a royalties pause worth up to $320m as the company decides whether to proceed with its Carmichael mine project.The deal, in which Adani would pay a discounted $2m a year on exported coal in the mine s early years, could be signed this week and has concerned some senior Labor figures, .Guardian Australia understands the balance of the deferred royalties would become due in later years. The premier, , whose government in its last election campaign vowed not to back Adani s rail or port project with taxpayer funds, would not confirm or deny the deal, the ABC said.But Palaszczuk, who along with the treasurer, Curtis Pitt, in negotiations reportedly rebuffed a bid by Adani to pay no royalties in the mine s early phase, said the project was  vital for regional jobs .It comes after a former climate change adviser to the federal government said risks inherent in Australia s largest proposed coalmine meant  could shelve its plans. of the Climate Council, which declares coal from the planned  mine  unburnable  in a new report canvassing environmental, economic and health factors around the project, said the odds against it would only rise over time. If I were a betting person, I d say it s better than 50-50 now that this is not going to go ahead and that [chance] will even increase,  the former climate commissioner said.The report argues a  carbon budget  approach to a global warming limit of 2C rules out Carmichael. As a catalyst for opening up neighbouring mines, it could lead to total emissions from Galilee basin coal matching  one of the top 15 emitting countries in the world  and making up 130% of Australia s total carbon pollution.The carbon budget for 2C allows for less than 10% of existing Australian coal reserves to be dug up, leaving  no basis for developing any potential new coalmines, no matter where they are or what size they are , the report says. This takes into account the  most economical  existing sources of coal worldwide. There are two undeniable trends   an accelerating uptake of renewable energy and coal plant closures,  the report says.  For Australia to fight these trends is economically, socially and environmentally unwise and counterproductive. Australia s second largest bank, Westpac, is the . An Adani Australia spokesman has flagged a final investment decision over the next few weeks by the board of its Indian-based parent. Adani would start  preconstruction works  by November and seek to clinch finance by the end of the year. Steffen said his key observation from the report was that rising impacts at  modest temperature rises    such as bleaching of the    along with more extreme events and warming of 1.1C-1.2C already  really put the pressure on getting out of fossil fuels probably faster than most people have thought ., which gives out  a lot more CO2 per unit of energy  than oil or gas, comes out as  the biggest loser  under a carbon budget, Steffen said. Basically, the story is we can still burn over half the conventional oil reserves, less than half the conventional gas reserves, but very little of the coal reserves, because coal emits a lot more CO2 per unit of energy,  he said. The real question is how fast can we phase out our existing mines and existing power stations before their normal lifetime is up. How do we hasten the transition? So any talk of opening up a vast new area of coal is completely out of whack with what we know about what s happening with the climate systems. Asked why the carbon budget argument had not gained more traction with Australian politicians, Steffen said:  I don t think politicians like the approach because it is so clear and it leaves you no wiggle room. Promising a percentage reduction from a given year  can be changed to suit a country s political purposes  by choosing a period of unusually high carbon emissions  as we did with 2005 .  It means that we already get some percentage point reduction simply by doing what we re doing,  Steffen said.  The carbon budget approach cuts through all of that complication and confusion. The report argues Carmichael is  given the pace of growth in renewable energy in China and India, and cheaper alternative coal sources for the latter. It says the  energy poverty  argument pushed by Adani supporters belies the fact it is cost not availability of power that puts it beyond the Indian poor. It argues the deaths of 100,000 Indians a year from coal dust pollution highlight that country s impetus to transform its energy system while growing the economy.