tanding proud at the intersection of Queen and Little Bourke streets in Melbourne s central business district is one of the city s beloved London plane trees. It s in declining health and will probably need to be replaced in a decade or so. I know this not as an arborist, or even as a keen observer, but because the City of Melbourne has assiduously assessed, mapped and  all of its more than 70,000 street and parkland trees. It s quite extraordinary the amount of data that we have on our trees,  says a councillor, Cathy Oke, who chairs the city s environment portfolio.The  is a vital part of the city s , an ambitious management plan that will see canopy cover nearly double from its current 22% to 40% by 2040. There s mounting evidence that the effort will be worth it. Street trees, city parks, green roofs and gardens keep sweltering summer temperatures down, help to prevent flash flooding, reduce air and noise pollution, , and ultimately make our cities more enjoyable   and healthy   places to live and work. So it s little wonder that projects like this, that catalogue and track a city s leafy assets, are blossoming   and equally unsurprising is that there is when large trees are felled. One of the largest of these projects is , launched this year. Developed at MIT s  in collaboration with the World Economic Forum s  and , Treepedia makes use of the vast Google Street View database to map and measure the visible greenery in cities across the world. The result is a collection of interactive maps of 16 cities   and counting   and an overall greenness rating for each, dubbed the green view index. At the top of the green league is Singapore, with a green view index of 29.3%. Sydney and Vancouver come in equal second with scores of 25.9%, and falling at the opposite end of the spectrum   8.8%   is Paris. But packing in a whopping 21,000 people for every square kilometre   more than 50 times that of    it is also the most densely populated of the cities.The picture that Treepedia gives isn t a complete one   Google s fleet is blind to a city s parklands, riverbanks and backyards, for instance. Nevertheless, the project does allow for broad brushstroke comparisons between cities, and even between neighbourhoods within a city. This makes it a powerful tool for change, according to Carlo Ratti, the director of the Senseable City Lab.  Citizens themselves will use this information to compare the place where they live with other places, to put pressure on government to plant more trees,  he says. Another tool, in the form of open-source software package , uses the bird s eye view of Google Earth to assess a city s canopy cover both on public as well as private land. It also gives a dollar value to the many benefits   or  ecosystem services    that trees provide. As climate change brings warmer temperatures and unpredictable, drenching downpours, these benefits are taking on added significance. Studies conducted in  and  have shown that a 10% increase in vegetation cover lowers land surface temperatures by more than a degree. With cities already up to 7C warmer than surrounding rural areas   a phenomenon known as the    trees are an important tool councils can wield against high temperatures that drive cooling costs up and increase mortality during heatwaves. During storms, urban vegetation is a city s sponge. Tree roots, green roofs and rain gardens help to sop up the deluge, easing pressure on stormwater and sewerage systems, and filtering heavy metals, nitrogen and phosphorous from the runoff that does make it into waterways. Climate change has a sting in the tail for a city s trees, though. In , an extended period of drought has set many of its trees on a slow but inevitable path to the grave. The combination of urban heat island plus climate change means that street trees are going to be put under stress,  says Nick Williams, an urban ecologist from the University of Melbourne.  You re suddenly five degrees outside of the natural envelope for these plants in a lot of cases, and that s going to put them under increasing stress.  Melbourne will need to plant 3,000 new trees a year   comprising an evolving palette of drought- and heat-tolerant species   to replace dying trees and meet its 40% canopy-cover target. Knowing the specifics of each tree in its care is a key ingredient, says Oke. But this type ofdetail is the exception, says CSIRO s Guy Barnett, and is usually limited to city centres.  Across large metropolitan areas like Sydney or Melbourne, our understanding is patchy,  he says. This is especially problematic because the hottest parts of a city are often the places with more vulnerable populations, such as elderly people, who are particularly sensitive to extreme heat.  That s where we need our urban vegetation the most,  Barnett says. 