t s been another turbulent month in the long-running saga over the Hinkley Point C nuclear power station. Having looked as if she might be , Theresa May  just before the Conservative Party conference.       the debate over Hinkley is far from over.Now might be a good moment, then, to reflect on the contribution that social science can make to these kinds of controversies over science and technology. Of course, what counts as useful in any given controversy will depend on your perspective. It is inherent to democracy that different values and interests yield contrasting conclusions. This is especially so over deeply-fractured faultlines like those which run through the .Social science can provide a better understanding of why different perspectives disagree   and help (when possible) to identify common ground. Hard-pressed policymakers often find it useful to understand how to foster trust, confidence and  acceptance  of their institutions and procedures.For powerful interests in any setting, social research can also play a useful role in helping to justify, present or implement favoured policies. Here, social science can be part of the closing down of debate   helpfully enabling political attention to move on.But what if, on deeper reflection, powerfully-backed policies are a bad idea (perhaps as with the Hinkley decision? History is replete with examples   like asbestos, heavy metals, carcinogenic pesticides, chlorine bleaches, toxic solvents and ozone depleting chemicals   where it only emerged in retrospect that the pictures being given of  sound science  or the  evidence base  at the time were unduly shaped by vested interests or constrained imaginations.It is here that social science can play a further crucial role: helping  This focuses less on society as a target for policymaking, and more on the processes of policymaking themselves. The production and interpretation of evidence is, after all, as much a social phenomenon as public attitudes or political mobilisation.It is a striking feature of the Hinkley example that even . The  itself acknowledges Hinkley C to be more expensive than other low carbon energy strategies. .       global trends compound the picture.With the UK enjoying the  and holding a , industrial policy arguments are also manifestly stronger for renewables. . . And simplistic  baseload  arguments are shown by numerous official reports to be superseded by technology   and . So the officially-stated reasons for nuclear enthusiasm simply don t stack up.The contrast with Germany is especially strong. Here, arguably the world s most successful industrial power , and a . Yet it is Germany   with a record of far-sighted industrial policy decisions in the past   that has made the opposite move to the UK: , in contrast to the  .So, here emerges another role for social science: critical interrogation of what lies behind the official picture suggests the best way to understand this continuing commitment   and the contrast with Germany   lies in the relative . The post-war German constitution, and a more critical political culture, makes it easier for Germany to resist incumbent industrial interests and ease itself out of lock-in.And our research suggests there is a further   seriously neglected   factor that may underlie the intense attachment of successive UK governments to civil nuclear power. This involves . Without the cover provided by lower-tier contracts in civil nuclear construction, the diminished UK nuclear manufacturing sector would simply not be able to build these formidable technological artefacts. Nor could they easily be operated without civil infrastructures for nuclear research, design, training, maintenance and regulation.So a consequence of withdrawing from nuclear power might also be very serious for    especially in the coming post-Brexit era. It is nuclear military prowess that supposedly allows the UK to  on the world stage. Yet, although this rationale for continued UK nuclear commitments is clearly documented on the military side, it is unmentioned anywhere in official civil nuclear policy statements   and in energy debates more widely.What this might mean for policy is a moot point. But by opening up this kind of wider discussion, social science can undertake its trickiest   but arguably most useful   task in any controversy. The stakes in this particular case transcend nuclear debates alone   and raise questions about the overall health of British democracy.