t has been a bad couple of weeks for China Inc, with useful international deals coming off the rails and damaging its brand in the process. First,  as Theresa May put plans for the nuclear plant on ice. Her concerns about the security implications of Chinese investment, particularly in critical infrastructure, soon became apparent. Then, on Thursday, came Australia s announcement that  from leasing a Sydney electricity grid on national security grounds.Add in the US justice department s  over nuclear espionage   an adviser to China General Nuclear Power is due in court next week, though he denies the charges. The case does not bear directly on the UK plans for a marriage of French technology and Chinese investment, to the commercial advantage of CGN. But it adds to the miasma of suspicion surrounding the behaviour and intentions of the Chinese state and Chinese businesses. That may make a decision to axe the Somerset project look more politically attractive, as No 10 perhaps hopes. It would be the wisest course given doubts about the technology and the immense cost to the UK taxpayer.Anxiety about the implications of Chinese investment and concerns over industrial espionage are not new, though Australia and especially the US . A commentary issued by China s state news agency warned on Thursday of, and in truth, a strain of lurking Yellow Perilism can sometimes be discerned indiscussions, as if business activity was not being conducted to make money, but as a front for some more sinister purpose.Acknowledging such prejudices does not mean ignoring the fact that China and western countries have different values and beliefs about the rules by which companies and countries play. China s conception of national security extends far into industrial and even cultural realms. The line between state and commercial actors and interests is blurred; no company can defy authorities on a significant issue. And foreign businesses in  complain of an increasingly hostile atmosphere.It is only right and sensible to seek engagement with the world s second largest economy, and its cooperation and investment brings considerable benefits   especially evident in light of the vote to leave the EU. It is also sensible to scrutinise and manage foreign investments carefully, as experts such as , formerly of MI6, advocate, acknowledging the challenges they pose not only in infrastructure but also in areas such as the tech sector, which may provide the future innovation that will drive the UK economy. Some deals may not be appropriate; others may need to be structured and monitored carefully. The question is not whether to do business with China, but when and how to do it.