t a point almost halfway between the east and west coasts of Australia, a mob of emus scamper along the Napandee property fenceline. The mallee scrub out this way appears otherwise deserted, the kind of remote location where one could hide a dead body and get away with it   but what about an entire country s radioactive waste?Landowner Jeff Baldock is determined to find out. Speaking in a considered gravelly tone through a bristling grey moustache, the third-generation farmer has an Ian Chappell-esque air about him as he defends the decision to formally nominate his land in Kimba, , as a site for the federal government s national radioactive waste management facility. It would serve as a repository for intermediate-level waste from the Lucas Heights nuclear site in New South Wales and low-level waste from across Australia. We ve got five grandkids living here on the properties with us,  he says.  If we thought it was dangerous we wouldn t do this. If I thought it d upset our grain or sheep we wouldn t be doing it. If his property is selected, Baldock stands to be paid four times the value of 100 hectares of the land, but he says the real advantage would be providing economic benefit to the thousand or so residents of a struggling agricultural district. It s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for our town   sorry, our community,  he says.  The antis talk about farmers versus the townies. To me it s one community.  It isn t the first time Baldock has nominated land for consideration. Last year the federal government ruled out another property of his after the assessment process was abandoned because of local resistance. But Baldock says those against the proposal didn t give it a chance. The most disappointing thing about this is the anti group was dead against this in about 48 hours   I can t see how they would have known all about it in 48 hours,  he says. In nominating again along with another landowner, Baldock has reopened wounds that were only just starting to heal in a community tightly bound by the challenges of an isolated life in the northern reaches of the Eyre peninsula.Last year Kimba  for the nuclear waste site, with one other in SA, and one each in Queensland, NSW and the Northern Territory.Only one of those, the Barndioota site in SA s Flinders Ranges, advanced to stage two, but it is  owing to its proximity to significant Indigenous cultural sites. The return to Kimba suggests the choices are narrowing   or vanishing. In March the resources minister, Matt Canavan, launched the new consultation on Kimba, saying:  A majority of neighbours, the council and others, have already told us they support these nominations being taken forward for consultation, which is why they have progressed to this early stage. But locally that means formerly loyal customers are boycotting businesses, old friends cross the street to avoid walking past each other, landlords are threatening to evict tenants, Kimba Tigers footy club members are at each other s throats, and insults are traded over shop counters and Facebook pages. Walls between community members are cropping up in all walks of life   even literally so, in the case of the new cafe next to Kimba s central roundabout.The swish vintage decor of Eileen s is disrupted by a plywood-and-pine wall blocking off a gate that until recently led to the florist next door. Across the face of it is written  Trump s wall .A couple of women in the shop joke over their coffees that the barrier should be covered up with flowers.The cafe owner, Michelle Rayner, says she and her husband, Brett, weren t heavily involved in the last lot of discussions about nuclear waste, fully occupied in that moment by the launch of their business. This time, however, they ve decided to nominate their farm, Lyndhurst, as the other potential site. Sitting a metre from the wall, Rayner says the reaction to her decision was  strongly positive   lots of messages of support, people popping in from the street   it s been great .One person who didn t appreciate those supporters dropping by is Jacinta Woolford, who owns the building and runs the flower shop that once shared space with the cafe. She and her husband, James, installed the wall to divide the two establishments and then shut up shop, moving their business online. Speaking at their farm 25km out of town, the Woolfords say people who support the nuclear facility now completely ignore them, including a neighbour whose cat they used to feed. Jacinta says the first assessment process was tough but having to go through it again a second time is all too much. People having coffees   with the shop being open like that you hear the conversations,  she says.  These people would be whinging about everybody, and then walk through my shop without even speaking to me. All the people for it, that was their meeting point. Because we ve said no, we can t go to council as they re clearly for it   we can t go to the government department because they re clearly for it, we can t even go to our mental health group as the people running that are clearly for it. Where do we go if we want help? James doesn t mince words, declaring:  The community is rooted. It s destroyed me,  he says.  I was captain of [the country fire service] around here, I ve pulled the pin on that. I m not going to go out to try and enjoy myself and feel uncomfortable. The couple say the federal government consultation process has only tried to sell the positives.  It s like they re here to sell a car,  James says.  Oh, you don t want it? Here s some free seat covers. Jacinta jumps in:  Here s $2m to go to the next stage. [The federal government provides] the facts from one side, that s all we ve got since day dot. They don t bring anybody here so people can make an informed decision.  We re not stupid just because we live out here   we can make informed decisions, but we need the facts to do that   if they d had a group for it and a group against it, the community go discuss it and come back and decide. That would have been much fairer and it wouldn t have destroyed the place. A spokesperson for the Department of Industry, Innovation and Science defends the decision to reinitiate the process in Kimba despite a 120-day community consultation last year that concluded there was insufficient support for the project.  The new nominations were made under new guidelines, which ask for an indication of support levels from neighbours and council, alongside the application, and this support was demonstrated,  the spokesperson says. The department is maintaining a presence in the community two days a week, meaning a more predictable way that the community can engage with the project team and visiting experts. And in addition to our taking submissions, Kimba council will also undertake a community poll towards the end of the 90-day consultation. The two new nominations for Kimba  relate to different parcels of land  than those looked at last year, the department says. The results of the vote will not be the only factor in determining whether the process advances to the next phase, and no threshold has been revealed as to what would constitute sufficient community support. If Kimba advances to stage two, in-depth technical assessments will be conducted of the proposed sites and $2m in community funding will be unlocked   which opponents fear will trigger further competition between neighbours wanting to secure grants.Hefin Griffiths, chief nuclear officer at the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation, says the facility is needed for the organisation s gradually accumulating stockpile of radioactive waste at Lucas Heights, where measures are being rolled out to temporarily increase storage space at the 70-hectare site, which is reaching capacity this year.According to Griffiths, most the waste earmarked for the new facility would be of low-level radioactivity, such as clothes worn by people working in nuclear medicine, or soil now stored at Woomera. That would only be hazardous for a  short period , he says, but the intermediate-level waste needs to be stored for far longer.  We ve got reprocessed residues that have come back from France which will remain radioactive for many thousands of years,  he says.The returned waste consists of 20 canisters containing 170 litres each, generated by the High Flux Australian reactor, which ran for nearly 50 years before being decommissioned in 2007.Intermediate-level waste will continue to be generated by the Open Pool Australian Lightwater research reactor and the under-development Synroc waste treatment plant.The proposed nuclear waste management facility would hold this intermediate waste above-ground for a few decades until a longer term solution can be found. Griffiths says another structure along the lines of the $5.3bn  will eventually need to be built.As for the facility that would hold the waste in the meantime, Griffiths says only a detailed technical assessment could confirm Kimba s suitability, but proximity to agricultural land and the 1,700km journey from Lucas Heights would not be insurmountable obstacles. Craig Wilkins, the chief executive of the Conservation Council of South Australia, argues a study should be undertaken on the prospect of storing the waste at Lucas Heights, close to nuclear experts, rather than  out of sight, out of mind . We also have concerns about how incredibly divisive this process is on communities already doing it tough,  he says.  When you have individual landowners putting it forward to kickstart the local conversation it pits neighbour against neighbour. Last time it nearly tore Kimba apart. It is clear from last time there is significant community opposition. Successive federal governments over decades have failed to lock down a remote-area site to store nuclear waste because of regional opposition, and in a separate process the SA Labor government has struggled to sell a plan to develop a high-level nuclear waste storage facility, with a citizen s jury last year . Kimba was first floated as a potential location by the Liberal federal member for Grey, Rohan Ramsay, who in 2015 volunteered his property near the town before it was rejected owing to perceived conflict of interest.Even after the bids that followed were rejected in 2016, Megan Lienert, a local resident, refused to let the issue lie. She and other supporters had formed the Working for Kimba group just a week before that decision was reached and felt it had been abandoned prematurely.Lienert, who with her husband, Matt, runs an engineering business and a farm, led the effort to restart the nuclear conversation on the basis that a facility would bring benefits well beyond the funding on offer, such as tourism, access to science scholarships at the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation, construction and facility maintenance jobs, improved mobile coverage, better emergency medical facilities and the stationing of a development officer in the town to help locals apply for grants. There s going to be no radioactivity in any of the grain, no radioactivity in the stock, what we ve been doing is educating everybody,  she says.  The more you educate, the more you know, the less fear there is. Lienert says opponents of the facility have threatened local businesses but stressed that it was only a minority who were causing problems. She feels the media focuses too much on the conflict in the town as opposed to the facility s potential benefits.On Kimba s main street, most business owners are doing their best to keep clear of the debate.  I don t have an opinion   I can t afford to,  one says.Leading the local fight against the facility is the No Radioactive Waste on Agricultural Land in Kimba or SA committee, which believes the media has underplayed rather than overplayed the conflict.Over coffee and cake in the kitchen of the Scott family s farmhouse on Buckleboo Road, three members of the group outline their concerns about the potential impact on land values and Kimba s grain exports, and their fear that this facility could pave the way for high-level nuclear waste in the future. Toni Scott, a committee member, says she felt enormous relief when they saw off last year s proposal and the March announcement of further nominations  was a bit of a kick in the guts, really . It s a major change to the community that will impact whether people choose to live here or not,  she says.That includes fellow a committee member, Bernadette Freeth, whose family runs a farm near the Napandee property nominated for the facility. They have been based in the area for a century.  Before this everyone got along together, neighbours were wonderful,  she says.  Now it s all about whose side you re on. They snigger in the shops when you do your shopping. It s all about the money, if you ask me. She leaves the kitchen briefly before returning with tears in her eyes. I think about it a lot,  she says, her voice wavering.  I can t sleep. I just think: we ll most probably sell. 