South Korea s new president, , has vowed to phase out the country s dependence on nuclear power, warning of  unimaginable consequences  from a Fukushima-style meltdown.Moon, a left-leaning liberal who won last month s presidential election by a landslide following the impeachment and arrest of , said he would increase the role of renewable energy and lead  towards a  nuclear-free era .Speaking at an event to mark the closure of the country s oldest nuclear plant, Kori-1, he said:  So far, South Korea s energy policy pursued cheap prices and efficiency.  Cheap production prices were considered the priority while the public s life and safety took a back seat. But it s time for a change. We will abolish our nuclear-centred energy policy and move towards a nuclear-free era. We will completely scrap construction plans for new nuclear reactors that are currently under way. Moon added that he would not extend the operation of ageing reactors, many of which will come to the end of their lifespans between 2020 and 2030.Weaning South Korea off , however, could take decades, and there is expected to be opposition from construction companies, which have increased technology exports under Moon s nuclear-friendly predecessors.The country was the fifth-largest producer of nuclear energy last year, according to the World Nuclear Association, with its 25 reactors generating about a third of its electricity.The former president Lee Myung-bak saw nuclear as an important source of clean energy, while Park wanted to increase the number of reactors to 36 by 2029.Moon recognised the role of nuclear power in South Korea s rapid economic development, but added that Japan s    which prompted the evacuation of tens of thousands of people   had convinced him that his country must look to new sources of energy. The country s economic status has changed, our awareness on the importance of the environment has changed. The notion that the safety and lives of people are more important than anything else has become a firm social consensus,  he said.Anti-nuclear campaigners have long warned of the potentially disastrous consequences of a meltdown at a nuclear plant in , where many reactors are close to densely populated areas.The public s support for nuclear power has weakened since the 2011 Fukushima meltdown and a 2013 corruption scandal over fake safety certificates for reactor parts. The Fukushima nuclear accident has clearly proved that nuclear reactors are neither safe, economical nor environmentally friendly,  Yonhap news agency quoted Moon as saying. South Korea is not safe from the risk of earthquakes, and a nuclear accident caused by a quake can have such a devastating impact. He also plans to close at least 10 ageing coal-fired power plants before his term ends in 2022 and to boost renewables  share of the energy mix to 20% by 2030.