South Australian and Victorian electricity users will be paid to voluntarily forego power use during times of extreme stress on the power grid under a trial program announced by national energy regulators. The Australian Renewable Energy Agency (Arena) and the Australian Energy Market Operator (Aemo) are looking to trial the program next summer, following  in South Australia and New South Wales caused by . Households and businesses who sign up will be paid for agreeing to be on standby to cut their use during times of increased demand or natural disaster, and then paid again if their electricity is actually reduced. Arena has committed $22.5m to the project over the next three years and aims to secure the equivalent of 100 megawatts by next summer, roughly 2% of Victoria s electricity use. The regulators said the program would help integrate renewable energy into the electricity grid, as incentives to cut use would solve demand problems without resorting to fossil fuels. The chief executive of Aemo, Audrey Zibelman, that demand-based solutions were commonplace around the world and would also reduce the price of electricity during heatwaves. People think it s about turning off the lights but it s not about that,  she said.  If you have a solar panel on the roof, [we re] saying during certain hours of the day we d like you to rely on that to reduce demand on the grid. For us, that s the same as increasing generation. It could be households, it could be small businesses, it could be industrial users. We re opening it to everyone ... it s not just to avoid system blacks, it s also to moderate the price. The CEO of Arena, Ivor Frischknecht, described it as a  win-win . Instead of building a power plant that is only switched on a few hours or days a year, demand response will allow us to reduce energy consumption during peak demand while also reducing energy costs and emissions for consumers,  he said. In February this year, South Australia suffered a statewide blackout due to extreme weather that struck 400 megawatts from the system in seven seconds, . In March, the premier, Jay Weatherill,  to secure the state s energy, labelling the energy market  a failure . The new plant is expected to cost $360m and produce 250MW in emergency power. However, Aemo and Arena said that demand-based solutions were more sustainable solutions to the energy crisis than increasing capacity.  From Texas to Taiwan, demand response has been proven to be a cost-effective way to manage demand at peak times and acts as a contingency to avoid disruptive power outages,  Zibelman said.  The simplest way to encourage people to use less energy at short notice is to provide a financial incentive. In NSW this summer, Aemo also forecast blackouts in parts of the state due to a 264MW shortfall. Also known as load shedding, the summer s power outages were blamed on an imbalance between electricity demand and electricity supply. In the case of , Aemo issued an appeal to generators for more power six hours before the first cuts but generators failed to step up output.Neither Aemo or Arena have yet shared details about expected compensation rates for those who sign up but held discussions with industry representatives on Friday. The regulators expect individual households would only access the scheme by grouping together, either through their energy provider or adjustable,  smart  thermostat companies.