So Theresa May has favourably reviewed the case for Hinkley Point (, 15 September). Put out the bunting, Britain will have its first new reactor for 20 years. We can assume therefore that our prime minister has completely satisfied herself that the unproven  for Hinkley is viable, deliverable and cost effective. Evidence from Finland (Olkiluoto), France (Flamanville) and China (Taishan, twice) has shown the EPR to be unviable, way overdue for delivery and way over budget. Oh, and EDF is on the verge of financial insolvency. If this is the PM s attention to detail, happy days. Damian Carrington (, 15 September) states that, according to the government s own research, energy efficiency could deliver six Hinkleys  worth of electricity by 2030. Achieving this would require a fundamental alteration to established policy, in favour of greater energy efficiency rather than subsidising endless new supplies of fuel. Even so, you may care to note that since 2010 annual electricity consumption has already fallen by 25 terawatt-hours, coincidentally the amount of electricity we might realistically expect Hinkley C to be producing when/if it is finally built. How many domestic solar arrays would the  18bn that Hinkley may currently cost provide? At  6-7,000 for the average house, it would be quite a few. And they can be fitted and working from now on instead of having to wait until 2026. This would give the solar industry a much needed boost and easily match the 25,000 jobs that Hinkley might create. The government could also insist that every newbuild house is fitted with solar (and, possibly, electricity storage units), the cost of which would soon be recouped by lower electricity bills.Of course, feed-in tariff subsidy payments would have to be forfeited, but it would show a government intent on tackling climate change with clean renewables   without the added cost and danger of nuclear waste and the prospect of higher bills that French and Chinese nuclear will bring. After the foolishness of grammar schools, our new prime minister s idea of a great deal is to give us foolishness multiplied. But even worse, if that s possible, is the blindness of Labour s approving anointment. Where Theresa May s decision is all about the politics of keeping China onside, Barry Gardiner s is all about the politics of keeping (some) jobs.Neither approach has anything to do with what might actually produce the cheapest, cleanest electricity, and of course provide thousands of jobs in sensible, safe industries. So repeat after me, and the nuclear engineer who Damian Carrington quotes:  Hinkley Point is unconstructable.  Paul Kenny, former general secretary of the GMB union, has said:  The UK government can no longer outsource the building of our power stations to foreign governments. The UK built the first generation of nuclear power stations so we can build the new generation we need for low carbon reliable base load electricity. Hinkley C is a big mistake. Our fleet of advanced gas-cooled reactors (AGRs) has given excellent service, with the one at Heysham the world s longest-serving civil power station. AGRs produce electricity at a much lower price than the strike price negotiated for Hinkley C; they are of British design and were built by British contractors. A reactor of the same design as Hinkley C being built in Finland is nine years behind schedule and 5.2bn euro over budget, while another at Flamanville in France is six years late and 7.2bn euro over budget. AGRs could be built much faster: for example, Torness power station took only eight years.Britain has been blessed with an island geography and advanced industrial history which together now offer great opportunities for developing tidal and wave energy (as on Shetland). These are safer, cleaner and more sustainable than nuclear, predictable for centuries ahead, and cheaper than Hinkley Point, plus offering potential applications and economic benefits worldwide. So we are to build this monstrosity. Where was the referendum on this? It seems ironic that we are judged sufficiently mature to decide on whether or not we leave Europe but not given the opportunity to vote on an issue that has the potential to wipe us all out. 