Simon Jenkins writes that  To question China s good intentions in financing the power station [at Hinkley Point] is silly. It is a French-built plant, and the idea that Beijing might contrive to embed and then activate some doomsday bug is absurd  (, 11 August).Not that absurd. The China General Nuclear Group (CGN), which is involved in financing Hinkley Point, expects to build a new nuclear station with its own reactor at Bradwell in return for its involvement at Hinkley. This was agreed .The reactor it hopes to build is its small modular reactor Hualong One.CGN has just been indicted by the US authorities for exporting nuclear technology to China without authorisation (, theguardian.com, 11 August). The indictment specifically relates to Hualong One and the  verification and validation of nuclear reactor codes .Computer bugs in nuclear power stations are not science fiction. Israel and the US planted the Stuxnet bug in the nuclear reactor at Bushehr in Iran in 2010.Hualong One would not be allowed in the US. Neither France nor Germany would allow China to build it in their countries. Is the UK really so desperate for Chinese funds to build Hinkley Point that it will allow  a major stake in the provision of electricity in the UK in return? Simon Jenkins decries the potential deal with China over the Hinkley Point proposed nuclear power station. He argues that project is  reckless and absurdly expensive , and so it is. But there are other reasons for stopping this project, which many in China will appreciate. China is arguably the world leader in renewable energy, both in manufacturing for the world and in using itself. The intrinsic variability of most renewables (especially wind and solar) is no longer a misfit with the variability of human demand. Ever advancing telecommunications and electronic control systems allow the demand to be adjusted to fit the supply on a scale from household to national.Witness the sophisticated systems widely available for matching electrical loads and energy stores to solar power. Householders already use these; electrical grid operators are trialling methods for widespread integration of solar and wind power with load demand control, energy storage and price adjustment.The last thing such advances need is an untried gigawatt source of constant electricity generation that cannot be matched to demand, that is expensive, and whose waste is harmful and untreatable. There are many in China and France who share these views; ceasing Hinkley will be welcomed by them too. I agree with Simon Jenkins that Hinkley is a dud, for many reasons that have been discussed in his article and elsewhere. However, I am saddened that he appears to dismiss wind, and implicitly all renewable energy sources, as not providing baseload electricity. At the same time that Hinkley has been generally given the red carpet, the  and further similar projects have potential to produce 8% of our baseload electricity.The tidal lagoon project would last about three times as long as any nuclear power station   about 90 years.The cost of the  lagoon is estimated to be  1bn. So to achieve the full 8% of baseload electricity (more than Hinkley), perhaps about  5bn would be needed to complete four or five similar projects in the UK   less than a third of the Hinkley costs. There is also no nuclear waste to manage for thousands of years. Tidal power flows into the lagoon for six hours, out for six hours and does this twice a day, giving reliable electricity for 24 hours a day.Swansea Bay tidal lagoon is the best alternative to Hinkley, so why is it not getting immediate government support and approval? Why is it not even being discussed? To make a sound judgment on energy sources British citizens should be given the relevant facts. One such fact is the disaster of Fukushima which has been ongoing for more than five years. Still out of control, the multiple meltdowns are pouring radioactive particles into the atmosphere . The crown estate is right (, 15 August). No lethal pollution emanates from windfarms. Perhaps Foreign Secretary Johnson might have a word with the Chinese authorities and explain, with his inimitable gift for communication, that the UK has now taken back its sovereignty and can no longer be pushed around (, 10 August).