ustralia s electricity supply has become an incredible mess. We now face some of the highest electricity prices in the developed world. Yet for all this money we pay it is also one of the most polluting (second only in the developed world to Estonia).One can hardly expect the chief scientist, Alan Finkel, to manage to resolve this problem in one fell swoop. But here s three things he ll hopefully point out.Blackouts and price spikes happen when we find ourselves short of energy. Consequently there s been considerable focus on how we can encourage investment in new power stations or potentially even batteries. That is perfectly sensible but it s typically cheaper and faster to cut back on wasted energy so we can avoid the need to build the power station altogether.But the thing is energy consumers are a busy lot, and they usually have a lot more important or more interesting things on their mind than how they might save energy. On the other hand, Australia s energy suppliers and bureaucrats are paid to think about supplying energy. They also spend a fair bit of effort making sure no one else undermines the time and money they ve invested in supplying energy.It s a completely skewed approach. To even the playing field we actually need a group of people who are focused on thinking and implementing ways to save energy. Finkel shouldn t try to push a square peg into a round hole by getting our energy suppliers and current energy regulators to do this. Instead we need separate and disinterested set of people, institutions and businesses to worry about waste, driven by dedicated markets for saving energy and reducing demand at peak periods.You know what? Sometimes machines break down. Even baseload machines. The only reason we have a reliable power system is because we don t have to rely on any one component. First, we ve got redundancy such that if one power station falls down there s some spare to take its place. Second, we make sure we plan for and anticipate that things might go wrong so we re ready to respond.You know something else? Sometimes the wind changes and clouds obscure the sun. Luckily we happen to know this already and thanks to the wonders of weather forecasting we can act to anticipate this by bringing on other power stations to fill the gap (we might even act to shift power demand around in time if there was a proper market for it). Even though a cloud might be obscuring one solar farm it isn t necessarily obscuring another.Individual coal power stations may not break down all the time but when they do it is impossible to predict in advance and it results in the loss of a large amount of capacity sometimes instantaneously. But we don t ask that coal power station to provide its own back-up. After all, for most of the time there are a range of other power stations with surplus idle capacity available.Some business interests are trying to push for individual wind farms and solar farms to provide their own back-up, potentially making it mandatory that they have quite expensive batteries to cover all their available capacity. This makes no sense and there are likely to be far cheaper and easier ways to manage the fact that output from wind and solar farms varies.Climate change policy is like death by acronym. We had the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme or CPRS which was a type of ETS (Emissions Trading Scheme). Now we ve got some people backing an Emissions Intensity Scheme or EIS, while others want a bigger Renewable  Target or RET. Now we hear that Finkel will propose a Low Emissions Target or LET.Some will scream blue murder if you dare to suggest one acronym over another. But you know what? They need to calm down. Given we need to get our emissions from electricity down dramatically, not just a little bit, and given wind and solar power are the cheapest source of new capacity, the cost of all these schemes is pretty much a function of the same thing   the cost of wind and solar power. OK, I might be simplifying somewhat, but the net result for your hip pocket is likely to be so small you d barely notice.More importantly though, if we do none of them we ll end up paying more for our electricity because without new power stations we end up with power prices being set by very expensive, inefficient gas power plants.