Security is being beefed up at a fracking site in Lancashire after a protester was hit by a van on Monday.A  posted immediately after the incident shows the protester, dressed in grey and black, trying to block a white van leaving the Preston New Road drill site. In the video, the driver appears to attempt to swerve away from the activist before knocking him to the road. The vehicle then leaves the immediate scene as protesters rush to help the man who had been knocked down. after the incident, which follows  by police and security officials around the plant. A Fylde police spokeswoman confirmed that the video was  taken at the scene  of the incident. But she also said that the van had taken  evasive action  to avoid an accident and no injuries were reported. Ashley Robinson, 22, from Blackpool, said he was the protester in the video. He said he escaped the collision with just bruising to his lower spine. He told the Guardian:  The van sped up as it came towards me. I caught the side of the car and went down.    I wasn t prepared for it to be honest,  added Robinson.  It was my first protest, and my mother was with me because we go to these things together. But it would scare me to go back. It wasn t what I expected. A  said:  We are aware of an incident on Preston New Road yesterday which has been described on social media as a  hit and run  ... Upon leaving the fracking site, a works vehicle has come into contact with a campaigner despite the driver taking evasive action to try and avoid him. The driver of the vehicle was indeed spoken to by police, provided a negative breath test and all other personal and vehicle checks were correct and in order. The statement adds that due to  increased campaigner activity  18 officers and three sergeants from other forces will be drafted in under  mutual aid  rules to help expand the policing operation.  A decision has been made to move to 24/7 coverage of policing the fracking site on Preston New Road for the coming days,  it said.Keith Taylor, the Green MEP for the South-east region said the event was  extremely disturbing . Lancashire Police must assess the video and investigate the incident without delay,  he said.Taylor, who also sits on the European parliament s environment committee, has, the acting head of the National Police Chiefs Council, to launch a review of guidance given to officers on fracking protests. After this latest footage, I want to renew my call and insist this is a matter of the utmost importance,  he said. Lancashire police are already investigating one alleged assault by a Cuadrilla security manager at Preston New Road.Anti-shale gas protests have become a daily event at the exploratory drilling site, since the government overruled a Lancashire county council decision to deny permission for fracking.In Sussex, however, the police and crime commissioner Katy Bourne  that protesters could only interact with vehicles on one stretch of land, subject to safety considerations.But she added:  Sussex police are allowing vehicles leaving the site to be obstructed for up to 20 minutes, and may tolerate obstruction of vehicles on site. 