s you enter the village of Kirby Misperton, in North , the first thing you notice are the many signs dotted around asking visitors to respect the tranquility of the countryside.There are the  No HGV  and  No dogs  signs near the village hall, a hand-painted  No bikes  reminder nailed to a post at the start of a public footpath, and a  No hunting  board reminding visitors that they are in a conservation area. There are also large  No fracking  placards, because this tiny village nestled in Ryedale, near the North York Moors national park, has found itself at the heart of a battle to prevent shale gas extraction in the area.On Friday planners at North Yorkshire county council  to a British firm, Third Energy, for testing on deposits from the area. Councillors are due to make a decision next Friday.It is easy to see why locals are trying to save Kirby Misperton. Gardens are full of vibrant spring bulbs pushing through white fences, and starlings swoop down on to the numerous birdfeeders. It is a quintessential English village with a pub, post office, church and pre-school. The village hall is a hub of activity with car boot sales, tai chi classes and music recitals.Dovecote Cottage, the home of husband and wife Graham and Jackie Cray, is the headquarters of the anti-fracking campaign. The couple, who have lived here for 22 years, argue that fracking poses serious health and environmental risks. They are at pains to deflect any charges of nimbyism, saying they are trying not only to protect their own backyard but to change in government s stance on the issue. We are worried about the domino effect this will have, opening up the potential for the whole area to be industrialised, which would sound the death knell for tourism and farming,  says Graham, 69.Jackie, 67, says:  We have to fight this because what is being proposed with all the increased traffic and the drilling will destroy this beautiful countryside for the children who will hopefully want to live here one day. We have to do everything we can to protect it for them. Another opponent, Tim Thornton, a retired GP who lives in the nearby village of Middleton, recites a long list of health risks allegedly linked to fracking, including persistent nose bleeds, nausea and increased wheezing in children.  involves pumping water, sand and chemicals into rock formations deep underground to release gas. There are so many reports about the detrimental effects on health in areas where fracking has already taken place,  Thornton says.  We just want the government to do some more research into this before they give us up like sacrificial lambs. It seems some of the environmental policies have been made on the hoof and there is a real danger in this helter-skelter dash for gas without weighing up the environmental risks properly. The biggest local tourism attraction, Flamingo Land, which lies just outside the village has raised concerns about visitor numbers and animal welfare. In a letter to council planners, the park s chief executive, Gordon Gibb, wrote:  Our fear is that the current application is merely the start of a process which will lead to at least 40 local drilling sites within the Ryedale district, then tourism within our area will be negatively affected permanently. We were informed that the used water would be piped to containers, removed and treated, but now this does not seem to be the case. Additionally, we now have concern for our beloved, and in many cases critically endangered, animal collection s welfare. The treatment of water was a fundamental issue to Flamingo Land and we have reconsidered our position on the issue of fracking due to the difference between what we were assured of and what is now being applied for. Experts in the energy industry say concerns about contamination and potential harm to health are unfounded, and point to international studies that back this up. Third  has repeatedly insisted that public concerns are misplaced. Rasik Valand, the company s chief executive, said:  We are pleased that the planning officer has recommended that North Yorkshire county council approve our application. Within our application, and throughout North Yorkshire county council s thorough assessment of it, including various stages of consultation, and through all the additional information provided, we have addressed the wide range of questions, concerns and comments raised by NYCC, statutory consultees and others. Third Energy has been drilling wells and producing gas safely and discreetly from this site in Kirby Misperton for over 20 years and we will continue to maintain the same standards in the future. Fracking in North America has transformed the world energy market by making the US less reliant on Middle Eastern oil and pushing down the price per barrel. But in the UK, where land is far more densely populated, drilling for shale gas is only at the exploratory phase.If North Yorkshire council approves the application, it will be the first green light for exploratory drilling since the government imposed a moratorium in 2011 after operations in Blackpool by the energy firm Cuadrilla caused small earthquakes.The government lifted the moratorium at the end of 2012 but no drilling has been authorised in England. Last June councillors in Lancashire ignored the advice from their own planners and rejected an application by Cuadrilla to frack on sites in Little Plumpton on the Fylde and Roseacre Wood, between Blackpool and Preston.