s someone who has spent much of my career engaged in energy market issues, it has been faintly amusing to read the media and political commentary that has swarmed over South Australia s blackout and whether or not it was the wind farms that caused it.Normally such serious matters of power system engineering where people s lives are potentially at risk are left to, well, the power system engineers. That s what happened in Western Australia when it experienced  on 22 September when 130,000 customers lost power due to a fault with a gas power station. And on 1 October when 24,000 West Australians lost power, the headlines were . No one seemed to treat these blackouts as sinister or surprising, and on both occasions, neither the national media nor federal politicians took much notice.But in the case of , which had just copped an extraordinary once-in-fifty-years storm, no one seemed much interested in waiting for the verdict of power system engineers. And in spite of the stream of photos and videos flooding the internet showing the strewn wreckage of crumpled power lines, as well as swarms of lightning strikes, the media, many senior politicians, and plenty of Twitter-qualified energy experts became electricity system sleuths. They weren t fooled by such false clues. They asked why the whole system went down and not just one part? Surely this was wind power s indelible fingerprint at the crime scene.A  by the Australian Energy Market Operator on events leading to the blackout has only served to reinforce their suspicions that it was caused by the inherent failings of wind power, not an extraordinary storm.They seized upon a subsection of an AEMO press release which stated:So there you go wind farms are bad, fossil fuels are good. But these amateur power system sleuths didn t seem too interested in asking why these wind farms had disconnected and whether this might be symptomatic of the effect of a very severe storm on any form of power supply. If you read the AEMO report closely, it reveals that the power system north of Adelaide was subject to a barrage of lightning strikes. This led to what AEMO calls in its report a  single phase to ground fault . Weather reports indicate that in the few hours surrounding the period of the blackout, the state was subject to over 100,000 lighting strikes. A number of these hit the transmission lines north of Adelaide nearby to a cluster of wind farms. These transmission lines also used to transport power from the now closed Port August coal power stations. Over a few seconds, these lightning strikes took out three of the four major lines. Lightning strikes on power lines flow through to the power stations connected to them. As you can imagine this is dangerous for the power station. Power stations can be designed to ride through a few lighting strikes, but it s quite probable these wind farms suffered multiple strikes. At such point they would have disconnected to avoid damage. Fossil fuel power stations also don t cope too well with lightning strikes. In fact one of the fossil fuel power stations AEMO relied upon to restart the power system after the blackout wasn t operational and this was also likely to be due to lightning damage.What makes this wind farm witch-hunt so farcical is that a similar event involved the Northern coal power station. The closure of this coal power plant has been held up by critics of renewable energy as heralding great threats to SA s power supplies and a reason to halt further expansion of renewable energy nationally.On 14 March 2005 the 275kV transmission backbone of Northern   the same as the one that was hit last week   suffered the same single phase to ground fault, in that case due to dirty insulators. This led to the sudden loss of all Northern s power. This then induced imports from the interconnector with Victoria to surge to levels just like they did in the recent black out. This caused the interconnector to trip off to avoid damage and so large parts of the state lost power. A major power blackout causes considerable damage and inconvenience to the community and can threaten lives. We should rightly ask whether we might be able to make changes to the system at an affordable cost that could prevent such an event occurring again. Additionally we should consider how we maintain high levels of reliability while incorporating non-polluting power sources reliant on the weather. But can we please leave this to the experts?