s I walk from the main plant area to the jetty, the view before me is spectacular. The sun is bursting through the clouds and illuminating a hive of activity, and the contrast between the man-made and the natural is striking. A family of grey seals is lounging by the shore; and alongside, an Indonesian tanker is docked and ready to receive a shipment of product, which our team is pumping through a network of decaying steel pipes built in the 1970s. The Indonesian crew members share jokes with the British workers despite the obvious language barrier. There is a mutual respect and a shared understanding that will always exist between workers sharing a trade and a way of life.Despite the importance of the reliance on technology and cold logic in the industrial world, it is these daily interactions with people of all different backgrounds and the positive energy that comes from successful collaboration that I like most about my job as an engineer. There is nothing quite like the feeling of reaching the end of a project that you have been grafting over for months and finally seeing the system that you first sketched out with your peers on the back of a fag packet being bolted into position and ramped up for the first time.Most people see industrial complexes as a blight on the land; I see them as a demonstration of human ingenuity, pieced together with intimate precision and reliant upon scientific discoveries of the 19th and 20th centuries. When I was growing up my mum would often shout  come on the humans!  as we drove by any such place and my eyes lit up.These days I m a chemical engineer by trade, but can find myself working on things as wide-ranging as preparing electrical circuit loop diagrams, assessing the mechanical integrity of pressure vessels, or designing industrial piping systems. What I love about working in a multi-disciplinary engineering office is that you can normally get involved in any job that you hear about through the grapevine by showing willingness and initiative, which keeps things varied and fresh.A project typically begins with an initial site survey to kick the tyres and see what it is you re up against; each time I pray for an exotic far-flung location but usually end up in the Midlands. Following this we retreat back to our office to study the system, come up with our solution and then prepare our fancy drawings and calculations. The drawings will be used by a construction team and the calculations will prove that we re not making it up as we go along.The sheer amount of information that one needs to absorb, process and use to make conclusions on a daily basis may be off-putting for anyone considering a career in engineering as it inevitably means a lot of time spent behind a desk and in front of a screen. I ve found it quite hard so far in my career to strike the right balance between getting enough on-site time (I m an outdoors person) and living in a location that suits my personal life (I m also a city person), as most site-based jobs are, understandably, in remote places.The work-life balance, it must be said, is excellent for engineers in comparison to other professionals. I have friends who are in finance, teaching and medicine and I find it hard to comprehend the amount of out of hours they put in on a weekly basis. Work can be flexible and, unless I m on a deadline and haven t managed my time well, I rarely take it home with me. However, at work it s quite full on, which is fine. Although it s advisable not to come in with a hangover, as that will be the day you get dragged in to an off-the-cuff 8:30am video conference with a bunch of frustrated Chinese clients ready to grill you on the most minute technical detail of a recent study you carried out on their plant, which can be challenging to say the least.Most engineers are charged out on an hourly basis and, unlike some professions, an hour charged still equates to an hour worked. It is rather bizarre however, and frustrating at times, that I can see precisely what the market rate is for an hour of my labour yet this doesn t in any way reflect what I receive in my pay packet. I understand there are costs associated with my employment that need to be absorbed by my hourly rate, but I ve never quite grasped the large gap between what I make for the company and what I take home in pay. That is, until I remember the legions of business development staff we have jetting around the world having  high-level  discussions with  strategic customers . I m not quite convinced, and I m sure it s this arrangement that encourages so many skilled engineers to become self-employed contractors and risk being at the mercy of the market for the benefit of getting paid an amount much closer to their real economic value.The current government has been systematically killing off what remains of Britain s once exceptional industrial sector; the last-minute  of carbon capture and storage funding, elimination of renewable subsidies, and failure to support the fledgling steel industry, to name a few examples. Such an attitude from government is not what we need at a time when the problems facing humanity with regards to energy supply and climate change have never been more urgent. This trend of industrial collapse in favour of a colossal reliance on financial services gives me a growing feeling that I have missed the glory days of British engineering.However, whether it means emigrating to find work or holding out hope for the fruition of George Osborne s  (and despite his political demise), I ll still be getting excited when I see those unassuming jumbles of steel that keep the lights on and the country ticking over. Are you a supply teacher, a retail manager or a chiropractor? We want to hear your candid accounts of what work is really like. Find full details on submitting your story anonymously 