Peabody Energy, the world s largest private sector coal company (), recently faced off against environmental groups in a Minnesota court case. The case was to determine whether the State of Minnesota should continue using its exceptionally low established estimates of the  social cost of carbon , or whether it should adopt higher federal estimates. The social cost of carbon is an estimate of how much the damages from carbon pollution cost society via climate change damages. In theory, it represents how much the price of fossil fuels should increase to reflect their true costs.The coal company called forth witnesses that represented  that humans are the primary cause of global warming, including  and , while their opposition invited witnesses like  and John Abraham who represent .  in favor of the higher carbon cost estimates, but it s worth delving into some of the details of the climate science and economics arguments to see why the judge ruled against the coal company and its contrarian witnesses.  (rebutted by John Abraham  and ) can be summarized as follows:In between these primary arguments, Peabody coal s witnesses made a variety of false and/or conspiratorial statements, dredging up numerous long-debunked .Much of the coal witnesses  testimony focused on recent global temperatures. The testimony was written before , which had been , and now . This record-breaking new reality invalidates much of their testimony, but much of it was inaccurate to begin with. For example, at one point Roy Spencer claimed:This statement is . Over the past 18 years the surface has warmed, the atmosphere has warmed, the oceans have warmed, ice has melted, sea levels have risen, and so on. Even Spencer s own satellite data showed that the atmosphere had most likely warmed over the cherry-picked 18-year period in question. Anyone can easily check the warming trends with .Spencer also presented a number of graphs comparing observed and modeled temperature data   . These graphs were intended to dispute the accuracy of climate models, but the reality is that these , as I show in my book . NASA GISS Director Gavin Schmidt recently .Spencer and Lindzen both claimed that a growing body of research suggests the climate is much less sensitive to the increasing greenhouse effect than the IPCC report concluded. This is a clear-cut case of cherry picking, as is evident simply by understanding that the IPCC report takes all research into consideration, including studies with relatively low (and high) climate sensitivity estimates.While some recent studies have suggested a relatively low climate sensitivity, those studies have generally , and other recent studies have suggested . The latter were completely ignored by the coal witnesses.To argue for a low sensitivity, Lindzen even went as far as to reference a paper he published in 2001 hypothesizing that clouds will act to slow global warming.  in the hypothesis and/or identified contradictory evidence. Again, the hypothesis simply hasn t withstood scientific scrutiny or the test of time.Ultimately Lindzen admitted that the coal company case relied upon trusting the 3% of fringe contrarian scientists and ignoring the expert consensus as summarized in the IPCC report:In other words, trust these outlier scientists  judgment about what evidence is  best  and ignore the expert consensus. The judge did not find this argument compelling.Incredibly, the coal company actually made the case that carbon pollution is so terrific, we should be subsidizing it:This testimony came from the same economist wrote the following in showing that :In short, carbon generally  fertilizes  plants, which is good, but carbon pollution also causes climate change, which leads to more extreme weather like heat waves and droughts,  or most species in general. We re already well beyond the point where the costs are outweighing the benefits.Lindzen s testimony in particular included numerous long-debunked climate myths, for example denying that the . It also included conspiratorial thinking with regards to the global temperature record:The coal testimony thus checked off each of :Ultimately, the judge was able to see the difference between science and denial, :On nearly every key point the judge ruled that the  preponderance of evidence  was on the side of the environmental groups and not the coal company, and recommended that the State of Minnesota use the federal social cost of carbon estimates.Coal s climate contrarians took their best shot at climate science, and they lost.