ow much should people pay for the essential service of heating and powering their homes? Last week, politicians tried to outbid one another with how much they would save you. Up to  100 off for two thirds of people, said the Tories. We ll raise you, with a  1,000 ceiling for everyone, said Labour.Vested interests across the energy world responded with  and consumers would inadvertently suffer as prices went up. Jobs would be shed as profit margins crumbled for the  big six  cohort of energy firms, who still hold 84% of the market despite years of so-called competition.Yet amid the furore, and the debate over how low a cap would be set, how long it would last and whether it would really end what Theresa May described as  rip-off energy prices , the real solution barely warranted a mention.The problem with price caps is that they are   like switching to tariffs that eventually come to an end   a short-term sticking plaster. Ed Miliband s price freeze was for 18 months. The Conservatives  stolen version will be time-limited, perhaps for a year or two, perhaps longer. But when it lifts, so will prices, and we end up back with the status quo.The elephant in the room, and the only real long-term answer to reducing how much we pay, is energy efficiency. As one industry figure admits, it s  not electoral Viagra . But experts agree that new boilers, better appliances, insulating the solid walls of 100-year-old homes and properly lagged lofts are the only true fix. that shifting to A-rated fridge-freezers, ditching incandescent bulbs and switching to condensing boilers reduced the average household energy bill by  290 between 2008 and 2016. Efficiency is a large part of the reason people pay about  115 a year less for energy in real terms than they did nine years ago.Fitting energy-efficiency measures is relatively cheap   and when it s not, there are financing workarounds   plus installing them creates jobs across the country. Yet in government, the Conservatives have botched or cut government energy-efficiency programmes that could have reined in the rising energy bills that have made a cap seem so inevitable.The number of insulation measures going into homes will have fallen 88% in a decade by the end of the year, at current rates. The 1 million homes the government promises to insulate this parliament sounds good   until you realise that in 2007, 2.5 million homes were done in a single year.Less than three months after coming to power in 2015, ministers . It was deeply flawed, so few were sad to see it go. But as officials freely admitted, the government had nothing to replace it, and still doesn t.Labour, to its credit, at least understands the importance of saving energy. The party s draft manifesto pledged to insulate four times as many homes as the Tories. It promises interest-free loans, , for people to make their homes more efficient.The government has supported a loophole for landlords allowing them to sidestep  which would force them to reduce energy bills for their tenants. By contrast, Labour promises to improve upon the regulations.But whether it s May or Jeremy Corbyn installed in No 10 next month, there s also still the obstacle of the big six suppliers.They pay lip service to energy efficiency but in private they hate it. Like warm weather, it reduces consumption and profits. One of the six lobbied relentlessly to cut energy-efficiency measures in a row over bills in 2013, when prices had also risen.Which brings us back to the Tories  price cap on default tariffs. Analysts have shown it will hit the big six suppliers the hardest, because theirs are the most expensive on the market. So the cap could have one silver lining   loosening the big six s dominance will weaken one obstacle to the real solution to rising prices.Last week Iain Duncan Smith said he wanted British jobs for British workers as he waved the flag for Theresa May s immigration clampdown. It is a simple slogan, but favouring UK school leavers over better qualified foreigners   an inevitability in a post-Brexit world   will require renewed focus on skills.Duncan Smith, the former work and pensions minister, argues employers should be trying harder. Brexit and the immigration squeeze that would follow will force employers to trawl the local schools and further education colleges for nascent talent. That will be a necessity, so they may as well start now.The problem for employers is that the squeeze on skilled labour is already hurting them before they have had a chance to shop locally for replacements. A study by the Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC) found vacancies at their highest level for 16 months.The REC s chief executive, Kevin Green, says the continued evidence of skills shortages puts the onus on the next government to invest in training and careers advice. Unfortunately for Duncan Smith and the government, it can only hang its head in shame in response. It has dumped careers advice into the lap of schools, and to say the service is patchy would be kind.Now these same schools face draconian budgets cuts. Will the careers adviser survive when a science teacher is at risk? Not likely. The cuts to further education colleges are longstanding and mean that skills training is already operating at subsistence levels.Green says the current lack of training and careers advice means the government must allow foreigners freedom to work in the UK. Duncan Smith says employers will ignore their responsibilities to local workers as long as foreign ones are queuing at the door.But ministers cannot allow a vacuum to develop without doing further damage to the economy. It is crucial that the next government spends the money on skills training before a full Brexit   hard or soft   and not wait until the situation reaches a crisis.Six years after the government pledged to increase diversity in FTSE 100 boardrooms, it is hard to believe that any business remains a male bastion. But that is the case for ConvaTec, a maker of bandages and colostomy bags that floated on the stock market last October and held its first annual general meeting last week.It could have been an ideal opportunity for investors to register a protest at the eight .The  show otherwise. Aall resolutions were nodded through.Now, it may the case that big City investors are giving the company the benefit of the doubt: it entered the FTSE 100 index very quickly for a newly floated company. Or maybe investors are ready to turn a blind eye after the shares rose 20% since floating. Either way, they must bring pressure to bear before the next AGM.