ort Augusta, a country town of 14,000 people in South Australia, could have been a perfect example. For 68 years, coal-fired power stations and the local mines generated jobs for 400 workers and provided power for .This is the story of a community, its power station workers and their union taking their plan for jobs and solar thermal power to state and federal government, and to global energy giants in France and the United States, demanding a just transition for the people of Port Augusta, demanding a zero carbon future for people everywhere.The coal-fired power station was on borrowed time. Worried about air quality and environmental health, the community looked for alternative plans for energy, industry and jobs.Five years of work   during which all options were considered   resulted in a decision that a solar thermal plant was the best fit for both a clean energy base and for skills transfer for existing energy workers.A feasibility study and three companies interested in constructing this renewable alternative added further cause for optimism.Even the political support appeared to line up, a promise of funding support before a national election, state government support, and a local mayor backing in his community and workers and their unions with environmental activists singing in tune.For a moment, Port Augusta held its breath. The plan was in place. A source of energy that would allow workers to transfer from the defunct coal-fired power station. A company willing to build, the community behind it, the workers having hope for a future.So why are they still waiting?The missing ingredient is a shared sense of urgency to get the job done, leaving the community and governments out-manoeuvred by corporate greed.The power station owner, Alinta, deserted its workers and the community in a shocking decision to . More than 250 workers are potentially stranded.A dishonest company is nothing new; a company that takes no responsibility for the community from which they have drawn a loyal workforce that made their profits for them is sadly a global tale but where is the rescue team?A standoff on what comes first, a contract or investment security, seems to be the villain. A standoff between layers of government with a missing procurement contract for purchasing energy from the company willing to invest in the solar thermal plant and a start-up clean tech grant.What would it take: a phone call, a meeting, a partnership in the interests of hope for a vulnerable community? Is it any wonder people are losing trust in governments?But all is not lost. The elements are in place and with political will, construction jobs could be in place within a few months, a power source with skilled jobs within two years and an optimism for a community wanting to attract new industry to their town.Planning and partnership equals the possibility of just transition. Respect and concern for a viable community should drive the political will. Working together a prime minister and a premier could show the world a  just transition  is possible.If we are to beat the race against time to stabilise the planet, it will take all of us. Workers and their communities cannot be stranded because no one will take responsibility.End the waiting   re-power Port Augusta.