Opposition from French unions has cast fresh doubt over the future of the planned  nuclear power station in Somerset.Key French workers  unions continue to oppose the  18bn project despite repeated attempts by EDF, which would build the reactors, to win their backing. The French state-owned company has  until the summer while it consults the unions. Union representatives hold six of the 18 seats on its board.Hinkley Point C is a key plank of the UK s energy policy and would provide 7% of Britain s electricity. It was meant to open next year, but has been delayed to 2025.EDF is seeking support from a committee of workplace representatives after a package of measures from the French government to shore up the company s financial future had been put in place. But the committee raised serious concerns over cost and demanded more information.Jean-Luc Magnaval, secretary of the central works committee,  that staff feared the high cost of Hinkley Point could cripple EDF, which is heavily indebted and recently had its . Other nuclear plants being built by EDF in France and Finland are years behind schedule and billions over budget.Magnaval said:  We have reservations about several aspects of the project: organisation, supply chain, installation and procurement. The trade unions are unlikely to give their blessing to the project in its current state. We are not reassured by the documents we have received. We have been given a marketing folder, not the full information we require. We got the documents on 9 May   we are sending EDF a request for more explanations. Earlier this week, the French economy minister,  (pdf) to reassure them of the French government s commitment to the project. He added, however:  It is also necessary, in the interests of all, that EDF follows due process before committing itself to an investment of this magnitude. The consultation of the central works committee brings legal robustness on the decision. EDF s chief executive, Vincent de Rivaz, told MPs that he did not know when a final decision on Hinkley Point would be made. Once the unions had been consulted, the board would decide on Hinkley, he said, but stressed the opinion of the trade unions would be  advisory .The Hinkley project has been criticised for , who suggested it should be delayed by several years, and EDF s , but president  the project.