ontrary to most expectations, the Australia-India Test series is proving to be an absolute cracker, with the teams  1-1 going into the decider that begins on Saturday in Dharamsala.Australian commercial sponsors of sport must always be delighted when the results are close, wherever they are played. Excitement means more viewers, leading to greater brand recognition for the  . One of only two   of Cricket Australia, the Commonwealth Banksponsors the national game at all levels.But if the Commonwealth Bank is really so  proud  of its association with  Australia, why is it investing in projects that endanger the health of Australian cricketers?CommBank is the most structurally significant private investor in fossil fuels in Australia. It is Australia s  by market capitalisation and  in 2016 than any other Australian bank. These are the same fossil fuels   coal, oil and gas   that are the major drivers of global warming, leading to shocking increases in extreme weather, including . Although cricket is a summer sport, extreme heat is no joke for cricketers, as anyone who has played the game in such conditions can confirm. There are well-known examples of the effect of extreme heat on cricketers. After compiling an extraordinarily brave double century against India in the tied Test at Chennai in 1985, Australian batsman Dean Jones  what it was like to bat in infernal conditions:  When you re urinating in your pants and vomiting 15 times, you ve got massive problems.  When finally dismissed for 210, Jones was taken to hospital on a saline drip.Physical activity in extreme heat can lead to severe health problems, including fatalities. According to the , heatwaves have killed more Australians than any other natural hazards and have caused more deaths since 1890 than bushfires, cyclones, earthquakes, floods and severe storms combined.Although they have always been with us in Australia, extremely hot days are now far more frequent. Just a couple of weeks ago, all grade cricket matches in Sydney were  for what was  to be the first time in the competition s history, in order to protect the welfare of players, umpires and volunteers from the extreme heat which scientists say was  by global warming. As Cricket NSW doctor John Orchard noted,  grade cricket does not have the infrastructure in place to safely monitor and manage heatstroke in what is essentially an amateur, volunteer-run organisation .The disproportionate impact of extreme heat on amateur cricket is particularly ironic, given CommBank s recent  realignment  of its sponsorship of Cricket Australia (explained  in a briefing by Saatchi) to a greater focus on support for the game at a community level. The Commonwealth Bank s  publicly supports the 2015 Paris Agreement and its goal of limiting global warming to well below 2C. Yet CommBank remains the most structurally important private investor in fossil fuels in Australia. Commonwealth Bank chief executive officer, Ian Narev, in giving  into the banks on 7 March 2016, was not able to give a single example of a project that had been refused finance because of the bank s commitment to the emissions targets in the Paris Agreement. CommBank has not even ruled out providing finance to Adani s , which is incompatible with both a 2C target and the survival of the Great Barrier Reef. to Saatchi, the brand promise of CommBank is  enablement for all Australians , but global warming threatens the mass disabling of our human potential. If CommBank doesn t want its brand to be associated with cricket matches being cancelled and players collapsing or pissing in their pants from heatstroke   quite apart from the  and all the broader impacts of global warming   then it is time to get out of investing in fossil fuels.Last week two former Australian cricket captains      were among 91 prominent signatories to a letter calling on Adani to abandon the Carmichael mine project. In explaining his opposition to Adani s plans, Ian Chappell   you don t need to be Einstein when you see the frequency and the ferocity of some of the weather events that we ve been having . If CommBank wants the trust of cricketers and cricket lovers of Australia, it needs to rule out any future involvement with the Carmichael mine and stop investing in the fossil fuel projects which threaten the health and enjoyment of all those who play and support our national game.