onathan Shaw got solar panels installed on the roof of his home in  in 2011 and ever since has been riding something of a gravy train.He has been getting 60c for every kWh he sells back to the grid. That s much more than the 25c he pays for each kWh he buys from the grid.But that s about to change.  We re about to get a major reduction, I think,  says Shaw.Like many solar customers, Shaw is aware that something is going to change, but is unsure what precisely is going to happen and what he needs to do about it.He s one of more than 275,000 people across Australia who will see the subsidised payments they receive for their solar energy disappear over the next six months, replaced with rates up to 80% lower., which has led to 1.5m households generating their own electricity from the sun, was accelerated by subsidised payments for people who sell solar-generated electricity back to the grid.In some cases, like Shaw s, solar customers were able to receive more than twice the money for the electricity they put in the grid, compared with what they paid for electricity they took out of it.But for a lot of homes and businesses, those schemes are coming to an end over the next six months and, if they re not prepared, they will be heading towards some serious bill shock.Customers in , who got the most generous rate, will be in for the biggest hit and will need to do the most to adapt to the changes. At best, they ll cop a turnaround of about $1,000 or a bit more,  says Damien Moyse, energy policy manager at the .  But if they ve got a big system their turnaround will be two or three thousand or even more next year. In NSW, very generous deals were on offer between 2010 and 2012. People who signed up then have been on those rates ever since.What s more, the NSW scheme offered that rate for every kWh they produced, rather than just the excess they didn t use themselves.But from 1 January 2017 they will get paid as little as 5.5c per kWh for the power they put back into the grid. That means the economics will completely flip, and rather than being able to rake in cash by selling electricity back to the grid they ll want to use as much as they possibly can. If you use the solar on site, then you re avoiding paying 25c for every kWh,  Moyse says.  That value to you is five times higher to you than putting it into the grid at 5c. While about 150,000 homes and business will be kicked off these schemes in NSW on 1 January 2017, the party is ending for about 130,000 customers in  and  too.(Others are on schemes that will continue for years to come. So if people are confused about their own feed-in tariffs, they should ask their retailer what s happening with them.)Regardless of how much people are getting hit by the changes, the principle is the same for everyone coming off a subsidised scheme   and indeed for anyone with solar or anyone planning on getting solar without a subsidised feed-in-tariff: the way to make the most of the system is to use as much of it as people can to run appliances, displacing energy people would otherwise buy from the grid.How exactly to do that, though, can be confusing. Which appliances should be replaced? How should they be run? And are batteries a good idea?The first thing solar homes and business need to make sure they have is the right meter.The issue of what kind of meter to get is a minefield right now, with different issues affecting consumers depending on where they are, and options are changing rapidly.One thing that can help anyone make the most of their solar electricity is a smart meter, says Claire O Rourke, national director of , a group that lobbies on behalf of solar customers.A smart meter can be read remotely, and can tell when the most power is being drawn, helping maximise the benefits. They can also open up services such as time-of-use tariffs, providing savings for people who avoid using energy during periods of high demand. You re probably better off with a smart meter but they do have an increased cost,  says O Rourke.Some retailers are offering discounts for smart meters in return for fixed-term contracts.  It is really in the interest of consumers to shop around,  she says.For many people right now a smart meter could be overkill. The smart meter will either be paid upfront, or in the case of free meters offered by retailers, will be paid for through increased tariffs, says Moyse. Whether the meter will allow consumers to recoup that cost is unclear.For people outside NSW, the lowest-cost option is to keep their current meter, at least until it s clear a smart meter is worth it. Outside NSW, the current meter will work fine on the new deals.Unfortunately, for most people on the , their meters will need to be replaced.For those customers, their meters were sending all of their solar generation into the grid. And all the electricity used was coming from out of the grid. So really, these consumers were not using any of their solar power directly.So effectively, those who do not change meters will receive a small feed-in tariff for all of their solar generation, and then be buying all the electricity they use from the grid at a higher rate.In technical terms, those customers are only doing  gross metering  but after 1 January, if they want to sell any energy back to the grid they need to be doing  net metering .But whether people will need a whole new meter   which could cost about $600   or for the current meter to be rewired, depends on where in NSW they are, and who the electricity distributor is.  Moyse says rather than rushing to get a meter upgrade, it might be best to wait a few weeks or even months after 1 January, when there will be time to compare the various offers. It doesn t matter even if you go a few months with your current meter,  he says.  The , compared to if you change your meter early. It might cost you tens of dollars for the year. Jonathan Shaw says he s very interested in getting battery storage for his house, but they re too expensive right now.  Once the price of batteries comes down we will think about that,  he says. In principle it makes sense: the sun only shines during the day when many people are at work and unable to use all their solar-generated electricity. But if you can put that energy in a battery, then you can use it any time.And the loss of generous feed-in tariffs is driving interest in battery storage, says Chris Cooper, chief executive of Suncrowd, a company . It s a bit of a trigger point for people to look at new technology,  Cooper says. So far Suncrowd has run its first round in Newcastle, and had about 200 homes join together and buy batteries at discount rates.He says lots of the customers who have been approaching Suncrowd have been people coming off the NSW solar bonus scheme.Having a battery added to an existing solar system can significantly increase  solar self-sufficiency , Cooper says, a measure of how much the customer relies on solar rather than electricity from the grid.  With an appropriately sized battery you can boost it from 20% to about 60 or 70% self-sufficiency,  he says.Cooper says Suncrowd is building an online tool to help people calculate their solar self-sufficiency and have been showing it to people at events they ve been holding.  People are really motivated by seeing the numbers go up,  he says. Even at the bulk-buy prices that we get, the return on investment, there s other ways you could spend your money. But there s plenty of intrinsic value that might not be reflected in the bill savings that come with the solar self-sufficiency. According to a report Moyse published this month, at current prices batteries will not save most people any money. And looking at estimates of how the prices will change, they won t save many people money until at least 2020.If people do get batteries, the most economic type of system will be a medium or large solar system, combined with a small battery.  That will only supplant a small amount of your overall load, but it s at least being fully utilised,  Moyse says.Moyse says it s the most important thing people can do to maximise their use of solar generation, especially in warmer places such as NSW. There s no point having gas and solar and electricity delivered from the grid,  he says.  You ve got three fuel sources there. If you ve got gas, you re generally running one of your two main loads   hot water or space heating   on gas. That s about 70%, for most people, of your energy use. You really need to run one or both of those on electric to be able to soak up all your solar generation. For water heating, very energy-efficient heaters such as heat pumps, running off solar generation during the day can be very effective. In NSW and , depending on the size of the solar system, water should be able to be heated on solar generation.When it comes to space heating, there are a number of options. A house can be preheated while the sun is out, so less power is needed to heat it at night. Or there are heat banks which use the solar generation during the day to heat clay, concrete or ceramic, and then release it at night.Running as many appliances during the day when the sun is shining will help use as little from the grid as possible and help use up as much solar generation as possible. Most new appliances have timers on them that will allow them to run when nobody is home.Since the appliances will still be running things at night   lights, the fridge etc   when there s no solar generation coming from the roof, it will help to buy energy-efficient appliances when it is time to replace them.Shaw says that at least for the next couple of years, he s not going to change much about what he does.He says under his solar-adorned roof, he s got efficient LED lighting throughout, has a top-rated energy-efficient fridge and has triple glazing on his windows. Since he works from home, he already runs most of his appliances during the day.He will get a net meter but, other than that, he s going to continue as usual.  We ve done our best to have a low-consumption house anyway and we re not going to be doing anything much different. 