North  councillors have been urged not to turn the region into  the fracking capital of the UK  before a crucial vote that could pave the way for the technique to be used across England.The UK firm Third Energy  at its existing drilling site near the village of Kirby Misperton, between Malton and Pickering.As councillors prepared to vote on the plan on Monday evening, local people warned that giving the green light to fracking would damage tourism, agriculture and business and described the vote as a  David and Goliath moment  for the UK.Frank Colenso, from the village of Hovingham, told councillors that Third  had not proved beyond doubt that the experiment would be safe and would benefit the local community.Wearing a white Yorkshire rose on his suit jacket, Colenso asked councillors to base their decision on  logic and common sense  and said:  The passion surrounding this issue is on par with Brexit   however, there is no referendum for the people of North Yorkshire on fracking. Today you must decide our fate   If there is any doubt in your mind you must reject the application. The council s planning department recommended approval just over a week ago, meaning councillors will on Monday night decide on what could be the first fracking test since 2011. If successful, the site will be the first in the country to go into production.About 300 anti-fracking demonstrators had gathered outside the grand County Hall building in Northallerton, where the planning meeting was being held.There were fewer protesters on Monday morning but they could be heard booing, jeering and honking their horns as the first pro-fracking speakers addressed the Tory-dominated planning committee.John Dewar, Third Energy s operations director, denied claims that fracking was a  novel  technique and attempted to counter concerns that it is unsafe. He said:  Our company s mantra is: if something can t be done safely, then it shouldn t be done at all. He questioned whether any of the dozens of concerned local residents had read Third Energy s fracking application and said the company s conventional gas extraction in the area over the past two decades had not damaged the local community.Earlier on Monday, Kyle Boote, owner of the Helmsley Brewing Company, said the  most educated, most employable and most aspirational  people would leave the area if the plan went ahead.He expressed concern that the district of Ryedale would be known as  the fracking capital of the UK  and have a damaging impact on local tourism and business.Boote added:  Our beers have been branded to convey the unique character of our area and will not seem so appealing should our region become synonymous with fracking. In business as in all things, perception is often reality. But what if the worst happens? People will definitely not want to visit or buy from producers in areas where there have been environmental problems. The short- and long-term impact on local tourism and farming will be profoundly negative with both new and long-established businesses ruined. The government has said it is going  all out for shale  to boost energy security and the economy. But opponents fear fracking   in which liquid is pumped deep underground at high pressure to fracture rock and release gas   can cause problems including water contamination, earthquakes and noise and traffic pollution.Environmentalists also warn that pursuing new sources of gas   a fossil fuel   is not compatible with efforts to tackle climate change. No fracking has taken place in the UK since 2011, when tests on the Fylde coast were found to have been the probable cause of minor earthquakes in the area. Since then, two high-profile applications to frack in Lancashire have been rejected by councillors and are the subject of appeals.Third Energy wants to frack for shale gas using an existing two-mile deep well   called KM8   drilled in 2013.Sarah Houlston, whose farm is just over a mile from HM8, said she wanted to know how the wells would be kept safe once the fracking had finished. No insurance company, she said, provided cover to farmers whose water had been contaminated due to fracking. This is about our children s future   we need a sustainable future, safe food, safe water and clean air   We believe that agriculture s greatest threat in the UK comes from fracking,  she said.