No one can accuse  of not putting its money where its mouth is. The leaked manifesto is nothing short of a blueprint for a fairer post-Brexit Britain. From redrawing society s contract with business and tackling energy prices to addressing workers  rights and funding schools and hospitals, this draft manifesto signals a reversal not just of the austerity policies of the past seven years, but of the Thatcherite ideology that has underpinned our economic system for almost four decades.While many will welcome these policies, many will also ask:  Where will the money come from?  The Labour party has been walking wounded since the successful Conservative campaign to blame it for the recession-induced budget deficit in 2009-10. Since then, cuts to government spending, even when much-criticised by top economists and proved to undermine economic growth, have been legitimised by both political leaders and the mainstream media.The draft manifesto treads a fine line between acknowledging this narrative and insisting on borrowing to upgrade British infrastructure. The most exciting thing for me is the National Investment Bank   a commitment to borrow  250bn to upgrade infrastructure so we re ready for a post-Brexit, hi-tech, climate-changing world. This is absolutely the right thing to do, and is exactly what s needed to support those in regions that have been left behind. By creating jobs and increasing tax receipts, this investment would more than pay for itself over the longer term. One can only hope the false narrative that we ve  maxed out the UK credit card  can be overcome by the logic of this approach.There is much here to cheer Labour supporters, both current and potential. What student (or parent) wouldn t say yes to free university tuition fees? Who could oppose 100,000 new council homes a year? Who could possibly say no to free parking at hospitals, free school meals and free wifi on trains?Surely the only reasonable objection to an annual injection of  6bn for the NHS and  1.6bn for social care is that even those hefty sums might not be enough, given the ever-increasing need. Who could begrudge public sector employees a pay rise, when those workers have had their wages capped year after year? The plan for a cap on energy bills can hardly be condemned as dangerously radical, given that Theresa May has nabbed it and made it her own. And plenty of commuters, especially in the south-east of England, will applaud a plan to bring the railways back into public ownership, given the service they endure now.In other words, most of the policies set out in Labour s leaked manifesto draft would, individually, be highly popular. If people cast their vote by weighing the policy programmes of the rival parties and choosing the party whose programme they preferred, Labour might well be on course for a landslide victory on 8 June.But that s not how people vote.  It s not like flicking through an Argos catalogue, circling the policies you like,  is how one seasoned political consultant puts it. All the evidence suggests voters choose the party they see as a credible government, capable of putting its plans into practice. More specifically, what tends to determine a voter s choice is not a party s policies, but its leader and its perceived ability to run the economy.Labour s wishlist might put it in front on policy. But on the two measures that matter to voters most, Labour lags far behind   and a manifesto packed full of admirable hopes and laudable plans won t change that. Doesn t the BBC get it? What s been leaked isn t a . It s versions of a draft prepared by Jeremy Corbyn s team that, clearly, has been pushed out to influence today s clause V meeting, where Labour and union top brass meet to sign off on the party s manifesto. That this thing has come out a week ahead of schedule, effectively blowing apart the party s election grid, leads to one major conclusion: Labour has become so focused on its internal struggles that it is willing to jeopardise its own bid for national government. Yeah, it depresses me, too.This is Corbyn s first offer   ahead of the giant policy haggle within the party, to be pushed and pulled by his opponents (or as they are sometimes known,  members of the shadow cabinet ). Today s papers say Corbyn is going to nationalise our energy suppliers. What I ve seen describes no such thing. National ownership of the gas pipelines, yes. But then the draft calls for each region to have  at least one publicly owned  and  locally run  energy supplier. Imagine: if you live in Swansea, you d have French-owned EDF, German-owned E.ON and all the rest   but then you d have a publicly owned rival called Wales . The 1970s of state monopolies that ain t.Believe the press and these proposals are  hard left  and  radical . Yet polls show that kicking carpetbaggers such as  off our rail network would be wildly popular. . Raising the corporate tax rate to 30% would be a reversal of George Osborne s giveaways, but it would put Britain on a par with Germany and Japan and leave it well below the going rate in that bastion of communism, .The problem with these ideas is not that they re too radical, but that they re not radical enough. Even if the trains were taken back into public ownership we d still need to work out a fair way of subsidising them   and of to what ends they should be used (to funnel wage slaves into London? To form part of a rebuilding of regional economies?). But how will you pay for it?  is the knee-jerk media response. A fair question, and another reminder that these proposals come prematurely and without the face-saving maths that Westminster always demands. But why didn t John Humphrys sink his teeth into George Osborne for throwing tens of billions in public money at big business and the housing market? Why was May not given a hard time over the commitments she must have given to Nissan?  How will you pay for it  is an excellent question. It s just a shame it only gets asked of things such as health and schools and not of huge corporate largesse.The Labour manifesto is genuinely fascinating. It s either a socialist s dream or the Daily Mail s worst nightmare. The policies scream old-time religion for many of the left. All the goodies you could ask for! Free tuition fees. Renationalise everything. More money for services. This is the manifesto the left has been waiting for since 1983. There s nothing you can argue against in this wishlist.The boring questions are how do you pay for all this bounty and actually make it happen? And will the public care enough about that bit? The bold political calculation that Team Corbyn is making is that they won t. They hope that  the many not the few  will hear all the good stuff in their hyper-partisan social media echo chambers, absolutely love it and dismiss any scrutiny as Blairite/Tory/anti-Corbyn bias. They are also hoping that people will rise up against austerity and register a protest vote as they did with Brexit. Corbyn s Labour is now a proper, real-time, leftwing political experiment and we will know the results on 9 June.On a recent reporting assignment, I spoke to families who had been shipped out of London, and left hidden away in tiny bedsit-style accommodation for years. They d been told they d be back in six months, but there is no available housing in the places where they are from. Groups of people are living in tents because they have no other place to go, while beds in hostels are blocked by people who are ready to leave, but have no affordable options   despite being in work. No amount of political will can fix these problems without more council houses being built. For that reason alone, this draft manifesto is pivotal.A nationally owned energy supplier is about real choice. Those full of pompous nostalgia can make retorts about the old days when crippling bureaucracy meant nothing worked properly. Fine, they can stick to the private providers, but I ll take the  1,000-a-year price cap, thanks.And for so long, many have lamented that if young people just turned out to vote, then policies that adversely affect us   such as rising tuition fees and the abolition of the   would not be implemented. But despite our turnout   around 64%   those of us who voted remain in the EU referendum found out that wasn t true. A manifesto that puts young people first by reversing these harmful education policies, and strengthens our voting power by allowing votes at 16, is vital to ensuring our future engagement.But let s not forget that the youngest of people might also be the most in touch. The 93% of children who attend state schools are forced to interact with a broad section of people every day, something that changes with age, as the range is narrowed by career choices and the friends we decide to let go. Anyone can pontificate on education policy; young people actually have to endure its effects. But this manifesto is about so much more than young people. If you care about how much your bills cost, the UK s housing market or the future of your child s education, it s for you too. What s not to like?