nce upon a time, you would throw your old bread to the birds. But in the Netherlands, where an excess of crumbs is feeding a growing scourge of rats, people are starting to turn to massive bread bins instead.Rather than ending up in the street or the dump, collected bread waste is taken to anaerobic digesters and turned into biogas or made into fertiliser.Reports of rat nuisance in Dutch cities are on the rise,  KAD, an independent research body that gives advice on pest control throughout the Netherlands. In response, some councils have funded bread-collection schemes to cut off a major source of rodent food.But what began as a community movement has attracted a number of companies in Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam, which see potential for socially responsible profit in old loaves. is one of them. Founded in 2014 with a grant from Rotterdam municipality, the company has installed bread collection bins at 40 different locations around the city and aims to expand to 60 pick-up points by August.Its revenue comes from charging the council for its services, and the bread is currently made into fertiliser by the council. But in future the company hopes to produce biogas and use it to generate, and sell, electricity too.Bread accounts for around a quarter of domestic food waste in the Netherlands, according to a government-commissioned , with the average citizen throwing out 9.2kg worth per year.A chunk of this evades the formal waste management system, in part due to habits and beliefs around old bread, explains BroodNodig s head of research, Aletta Martens.  Rotterdam has 180 cultures, and each has its own ideas about bread: some don t want to put bread in the bin but to give it back to nature,  she says.  This often leads to overfeeding of wild animals, and vermin. BroodNodig, which in Dutch means both  highly necessary  and  bread needed , aims to showcase its biogas plans with a small-scale digester at a Rotterdam petting zoo this summer. Some of the bread it collects will be ground, mixed with water and exposed to bacteria which turn the mix into methane   one loaf, says the company, can produce enough fuel to power a domestic gas burner for an hour.As part of its expansion plans, BroodNodig is partnering with two other companies, GroenCollect and Stadsgas, which have applied for planning permission for two biogas plants in Rotterdam.Philip Troost, director of both of these firms, plans to sell electricity directly to businesses and consumers: the plants, which Troost hopes could be up and running by November, will cost  800,000 to build, with backing from an unnamed commercial investor, he says.The technology to turn bread and other kitchen scraps into energy will come from , a company based in Hoofddorp, North Holland, which has already sold its biogas technology to businesses in South Africa, Sierra Leone, Hong Kong and Portugal.The  Transformers  first installation in the Westergasfabriek, a former coal gasworks in Amsterdam, sees organic waste from 12 restaurants, two theatres and a microbrewery converted into electricity on site, explains managing director Lara van Druten. Consumers can buy this electricity by opting for an energy tariff that allows them to specify preferred suppliers. The lights can go on at home because of the leftover French fries or bread from the night before,  says Druten.  The key is to reach the scale to have a transformer in every hotel, hospital, airport and street corner, and use that to power a greener future. Druten says the business has funding from Rabobank, Dutch governmental bodies and private investors and has just broken even after four years in business.Some experts see turning bread into biogas as the wrong approach.  Making biogas from old bread is a waste of valuable resources and ethically wrong,  says Toine Timmermans, programme manager of sustainable food chain research at Wageningen University and Research.Baking the bread in the first place takes more energy than you could ever recover in biogas, he says.  Instead, we should work with consumers to reduce food waste with better planning, preparation, storage in freezers and using leftovers, but because food is so cheap, people don t make the effort. But for people like Labour councillor Jeroen van Berkel, a long time supporter of bread collection programmes, the schemes are an astute way to keep out  ever more brutal  vermin (which he says are even getting into third floor flats), respect religious requirements and promote a stronger sense of community.Cindy Slaghuis of sustainability charity Aarde-Werk, which is working on a similar project in The Hague alongside the local government and a public-private waste collector, also hopes they can help to drive behavioural change.  The deeper hope is to make a transformation in how much we buy and how we live,  she says.