n the United States, people who  are calling for a heated debate. Who better to do that than a group of scientists   getting together and having a robust discussion for all the world to see,  the boss of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, told Reuters. And, of course,  You want this to be on full display,  he said.  I think the American people would be very interested in consuming that. I think they deserve it. That s right. Pruitt s respect for climate science would see it reduced to a bastard TV love child of Jerry Springer and Judge Judy. Pruitt has been pushing around an idea that has been  for years now and it is this: there should be a  red team, blue team  process established on the fundamentals of climate change, from its causes to how bad it will be.In a world that doesn t have a former reality television star and real estate tycoon as the US president, this process already exists   it s called the scientific method. The clearest demonstration of the  red team, blue team  method is in the process of peer review. To borrow from , no one pretends that peer review is  perfect or all-wise , it just happens to be better than all the other ways of deciding what the facts are. What Pruitt and his supporters are envisaging has echoes of the 1925 Scopes monkey trial. Then the state of Tennessee prosecuted a high school teacher, John Scopes, for teaching evolution (they had motion-picture cameras for that spectacle, too). In Pruitt s incarnation of the Scopes trial, one team would have scientists representing the central positions of all respected scientific institutions around the world. The other would have a thin sliver of contrarians.To the viewing public, the impression would be that there is some sort of even split among scientists about the fundamentals of climate change. It would be a test of debating techniques and communication skills, not a test of the evidence.The reality, of course, is that multiple studies have shown that somewhere between 90% and 100% of climate scientists agree on the fundamental points.If you ask Americans what percentage of scientists agrees that humans are the main cause of climate change, about  (more than one in five Americans think most climate scientists do not think humans are the main cause   but it s not clear how many of those watch Judge Judy). One of those people responsible for confusing the US public on climate change is    the head of communications for the so-called  thinktank  the    and .And while Morano wants people to keep thinking there s a real debate about the basic causes of climate change (it s his job to keep that debate going), there s a real and worthwhile conversation going on at the more factual end of the spectrum.This is a conversation not about whether human-caused climate change is real or risky (yes and yes is the overwhelming consensus on that) but rather just how bad on the catastrophe-scale things could actually get. In a much-read New York magazine cover story, the journalist David Wallace-Wells chooses to paint the bleakest of pictures. The story s title   is like one big spoiler alert. Writes Wallace-Wells: So in a world that does next to nothing to cut greenhouse gas emissions (an important caveat that you need to constantly remind yourself of as you read through the 7,200-word piece), Wallace-Wells looks around for climate studies that together paint a truly dystopian future. He brings us unbreathable air, heat incompatible with human existence, submerged mega-cities, wars, famine and economic collapse. He s been getting a bit of pushback, with scientists including professors  accusing Wallace-Wells of some inaccuracies. Mann and others say this sort of doomsday styling could lead people to a sense of defeatism and pessimism that s not reflected in what s possible. The veteran  argues the inaccuracies are very few indeed (he only really counts two among the scores of points made) but says if the article induces fear then this is in any case a key emotion that people need in order to act.As others have pointed out, it should not be the job of journalists to ignore or underplay aspects of climate change just because it might suck the living hope out of readers. In reality, the fat end of the risk profile from climate change   where things go really bad   is really very fat indeed. Take as just a small sampling the prospective loss of functional reef systems that feed hundreds of millions of people, or the trillions of dollars of infrastructure and buildings on flood-risk coastlines, or the disruption of food supplies, or the mass diasporas it could set in train as rising sea levels swallow people s homelands and their collective history. If that leaves you cold, then there s always , chocolate and . No wonder . Maybe they drink lots of coffee?At Mashable, Andrew Freedman writes that:  In more than a decade of reporting on climate science and policy, I have yet to meet a pessimistic climate scientist. Well, I ve also had about a decade in climate reporting and my experience is a little different. Many exhibit plenty of pessimism, and they do it often.In Australia, we ve gone backwards. , a prime minister wanted a target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by the year 2005.But those same climate scientists have bits of hope too. The two things can exist at the same time. Last night the energy and environment minister, , gave a lecture at the University of Queensland.His speech dazzled with statistics and pragmatism about  solutions  that might aid his ministry s  trilemma  of delivering energy security, affordable power and a transition to a lower emissions future while still being able to push the country to be the world s biggest exporter of coal and gas. There was a  crisis  in our energy markets, Frydenberg said. But he said almost nothing about the other  crisis    the climate crisis.A questioner from the back asked that, given future prospects for the world were so dire, did his department have any plans to review . The response was that Frydenberg would be  interested to hear more , as if it were an issue he hadn t thought much about. It was an answer that demonstrated the gulf between what a politician thinks is a crisis and what actually is one. And, yes, it s OK to say things could get really bad.