Twelve energy providers have pulled fixed-rate tariffs and replaced them with more expensive deals since 23 June, in signs that the pound s fall in the wake of the  could push up household bills.Comparison website uSwitch found a dozen dual-fuel deals had been replaced since the , with new offers costing up to  105 a year more for the average customer. It said wholesale energy costs had been rising for the past three months, and that the UK s position as a net importer of energy meant the  was pushing up prices. British Gas, EDF and  are among the firms to have repriced a fixed-rate gas and energy deal, although the biggest increase was by small provider Extra Energy, which replaced its Fresh Fixed Price October 2017 deal, typically costing  770 a year, with one fixed until August 2017 costing  875 for an average energy user.Tom Lyon, energy expert at uSwitch, said:  For nearly three years, wholesale gas and electricity prices have been falling, leading to cheaper and cheaper fixed-term deals for consumers. But with concerns about future UK energy supply, the impact of Brexit, and a weaker pound, we are starting to see some suppliers increase the price of their cheapest deals. Before the referendum, the government had claimed that a leave vote would push up prices for households. In March, the energy secretary, Amber Rudd, talked of an , with prices rising by  500m a year   or  20 for every household. However, leave campaigners suggested a Brexit vote would allow the government to scrap VAT on fuel, bringing down costs. The new deals launched since the vote vary hugely in price. Utilita s Premium  deal has fallen in price, by  31, but remains more expensive than some of those that have risen in cost, at  1,136 a year for a typical energy user. British Gas s HomeEnergy Fixed offer is just  25 a year more than the supplier s previous version, but costs  1,044.The wholesale prices of gas and electricity fell during 2015 and winter saw providers cut their standard tariffs and launch low fixed-rate deals. There were still  some very competitive  deals on the market, said uSwitch, and the average price of the 10 cheapest deals on the market was  99, or 11%, lower than in July 2015. It said that alongside one-year fixed-rate tariffs suppliers were also launching longer-term deals. First Utility, for example, has launched a three-year deal with a typical cost of  999 a year.