n Heather Speak s immaculate back garden in the Lancashire village of Roseacre, the only sound was the tranquil rustling of trees and the singing of the budgerigar, finches and miniature Chinese quail in her aviary.But a gloomy atmosphere hung over the picturesque village on Thursday after Sajid Javid, the communities secretary,  on its doorstep, saying he was  minded  to permit the drilling if Cuadrilla provided evidence on road traffic issues. I m absolutely devastated,  said Speak, who will be able to see and hear the 53 metre-tall fracking equipment from her back garden 300 metres away.  I should be feeling happy and relieved that it s not been outright approved but I m not. I feel sad and a bit sick. I m so, so angry that a government minister has turned their back on local democracy. Speak, a former mayor of Fylde and a lifelong Conservative voter who has lived in Roseacre for 30 years, added:  I will never vote Conservative again. Ten miles away at Preston New Road, where Javid approved a fracking site, overturning another council decision, the anger was palpable. Tina Rothery, who leads a group of local women calling themselves  the Nanas  against fracking, said they would not take the decision lying down. We have been standing in the path of Cuadrilla for our children. There is nothing going to shift us from that path,  she said, gathered among fellow campaigners at the proposed fracking site.Wearing a black tabard with the words  No fracking democracy , Kate Styles, 55, dished out homemade lemon drizzle cake and chocolate brownies she had baked to calm her nerves on Wednesday night.  Extreme times, extreme baking,  she said.A lifelong Tory voter who had never previously taken up a placard, Styles has been radicalised by the government s pro-fracking policy.  I never thought as a middle-aged woman I d be fighting the government on anything,  she said.  They could offer me diamonds and pearls   I ll never vote Tory again. Another of the self-declared  frack-fighting nanas , Julia Stribling, 67, said she was seething at Theresa May s government. The fracking operation would make the everyday task of crossing the road a  deathtrap  due to the convoys of heavy goods vehicles passing by her static home 300 yards from the drill site, she said. It s a very sad day for me. I m a pensioner. I never thought I d be protesting,  she said as passing cars honked their horns.  This has riled me up so much because they re just not listening to people. What don t they understand about no? Hundreds of residents have united in opposition to Cuadrilla s plans, but it has come at a high price. There remains underlying tension in the rural villages between Preston and Blackpool. Some are angry at the farmers who have allowed the energy firm to drill on their land. Others, like Claire Stephenson, 37, even removed their children from a school a mile from the Preston New Road fracking site over concerns about its potential impact on their health. The children were banned from talking about fracking in school so we removed them,  Stephenson said, her seven-year-old daughter Eveline clutching at her leg.  We re a rural farming community, we rely on farms and tourism. We rely on democracy, which has been shattered. It s just a big shock. We re devastated. Stephenson and the other campaigners believe they have strong grounds for a judicial review of Javid s decision. Rothery, who was part of a group that  in 2014, added:  At what point do you stand aside and say:  You know what, it s fine, I m sure I trust you ? Because if my regulators and my government aren t looking after my kids then that s just down to us then, isn t it? And that s a ridiculous state of affairs in a democracy. In Roseacare, Jackie and Jim Sylvester, who live less than 300 metres away from the proposed fracking site, were furious that ministers in London could overrule a decision made locally. Democracy is dead as far as we re concerned,  said Jackie, a parish councillor who has lived in the area with her husband for 47 years.  They ve gone against the will of the people. I think the people of England don t realise that once this starts it s not going to stop and there s going to be hundreds of drills. Elizabeth Warner, who runs a local action group against the Roseacre fracking from her kitchen table, described the process as a  Chinese show trial  and an affront to local democracy.Warner, her husband, Barry, and other local campaigners raised  100,000 in donations to fight Cuadrilla s application throughout the two-and-a-half-year process. They were staggered and felt cheated when they received notice of Javid s decision by email shortly before 10am on Thursday. It s just intolerable for the communities that are affected. It is absolute torture. At the heart of it is the expectation that people will buckle because of the strain. It will inflict further anxiety on people who have been through it by two and a half years,  Elizabeth Warner said. It s like reaching the end of a football match and extra time and a penalty shootout then inventing something else like let s run round the pitch for 10 laps and the last man home, your team loses. It s a truly shocking outcome. As texts and emails pinged around Warner s anti-fracking nerve centre in her pristine kitchen, her husband, Barry, said Theresa May s government had ridden roughshod over the objections of 15,000 local residents. Theresa May just yesterday was talking about fairness,  he said.  She says that one day and the very next day her secretary of state bends the meaning of the word. He s rewriting the rules. Mick Danby, an anti-fracking campaigner from nearby Inskip, added:  Both Cuadrilla and the government have underestimated our resolve. We re not nimbys, we re not scaremongerers. We ve done our research. As far as I m concerned, fracking is a very bad thing and it clearly is not in line with the government s commitment on climate change. Several Roseacre residents said Cuadrilla s fracking application, first lodged two years ago, had split the once tight-knit rural community. The farmers allowing Cuadrilla to drill for shale gas on their land have been shunned by the majority of locals, who fear it will damage their health, the environment and the area s reputation as a rural retreat from the bright lights and excess of Blackpool 20 minutes away.Clutching a mug of tea as her grandchildren ran round her back garden, Speak said she had initially been open to the idea of fracking. She turned against it, she said, after researching its potentially harmful effect on the environment. She said Thursday s decision had made her consider quitting her posts as a borough and parish councillor, which she has held for 17 years and 23 years respectively. I feel like walking away from it all because you feel what is the point? What is the point? They should be ashamed of themselves,  she said. 