n climate change, like so many other things, the world is going one way and Donald Trump is going the other. On Twitter the president-elect has claimed manmade . However, for most Americans, like most other people on the globe, daily life is increasingly impacted by extreme weather. . A remarkable 16 of the 17 hottest years on record have been this century, which scientists attribute to human activities.President Obama did much to roll back the pre-enlightenment approach to climate science that had polluted political discourse in America   giving global warming top billing during his second term, and . His parting shot was to send $500m to prop up the Paris international accord to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Political leadership has an important role to play, especially when leaders must act now to avert a crisis that will pose the gravest risks long after they have left office. The biggest obstacle to action on climate remains, as it has been for more than 20 years, the US political system which has embedded climate scepticism into public debate. President-elect Trump s cabinet nominations give rise to big fears and small hopes. His nomination of Scott Pruitt, Oklahoma s attorney-general, as head of the Environmental Protection Agency   tasked with reining in fossil fuel pollution   puts a man in charge of an institution he spent years fighting. Mr Pruitt sings a climate-denying tune, .However, Rex Tillerson, a former oilman nominated as Mr Trump s secretary of state, favoured remaining in the Paris climate change agreement. . This feels closer to Mr Trump s position. The president-elect s style lends itself to whimsical dissembling, and the weight of scientific evidence is such that even the Tweeter-in-chief has admitted there is  between human activity and climate change.There s no doubt the world will lose out if America decides to relinquish global leadership on battling climate change. But Mr Trump s fossil fuel plans are likely to flounder without higher hydrocarbon prices. No one will frack for gas unless profits can be made. Coal mines won t reopen while shale gas is cheap. Instead, self-interest will undergird the fight against global warming. . The costs of clean energy are tumbling too, keeping nations on the path towards decarbonisation. The price of electric vehicles is dropping; offshore wind power has become dramatically cheaper.  Last year was the first in which renewable energy surpassed coal as the world s biggest source of power-generating capacity. Countries such as India have ambitious . As we report, experts say that the best way for Mr Trump to make America great is to create the well-paid, fulfilling jobs that the  technologies of the future  promise.If he does not, then there s a threat made in a language that Mr Trump understands: protectionism. Politicians in nations such as France and Mexico threaten  if the United States, the world s second biggest polluter, attempts to free-ride on the efforts of others when it comes to global warming. This would not be a good idea, but the lack of leadership from Mr Trump s team has engendered worldwide exasperation. With or without the US, the fight against climate change will go on. It s just that victory will be harder to deliver.