Mathias Cormann has described the  to place tougher restrictions on lending to new coal projects as strange and disappointing.The finance minister said that, while banks had the right to make their own lending decisions, coal remained Australia s second-largest export. It was a strange decision,  Cormann said.  Obviously coal is our second-biggest export as a country and there are about six mines have had Queensland government approval as I m advised. Six mines in the Galilee Basin, about 16,000 jobs, and for any major bank to essentially issue a blanket refusal to be involved in any financing is a very, very disappointing development indeed. Malcolm Turnbull also criticised Westpac for the decision, saying he was disappointed with the bank. I think these projects should be examined on their merits. Just echoing what [resources minister] Matt Canavan said, the reality is that the energy solution for Australia has to be all of the above,  he said. The idea that Australia, the largest coal exporting nation in the world, the idea that we would suddenly walk away from that enormous resource is extraordinary. Westpac, the country s second-largest bank, released a new climate policy on Friday, saying it would limit lending for new thermal coal projects to  only existing coal-producing basins  and energy content must be  in at least the top 15% globally . The energy content of the coal produced by Adani s Carmichael mine is estimated to be below that.Australia s four largest banks have now all ruled out funding the Adani mine.Cormann said while everyone was focusing on Adani, the six new coalmines currently approved by the Queensland government would present a significant opportunity for economic development in a new coal basin.The six coalmines are Adani s Carmichael mine, GVK/Hancock s Alpha coal project, Hancock s Kevin s Corner, Macmines s China Stone project, Waratah Coal s Galilee Coal project and the South Galilee  project. For banks to suggest they are not going to be involved in a blanket sort of statement ... in supporting through appropriate financing arrangements essentially one of our significant economic activities as a country, is very disappointing indeed,  Cormann said.Adani has also applied for a $1bn government loan from the Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund to fund a railway to get the coal to port.Asked whether the Australian banking sector s decision would make the $1bn loan more likely, Cormann said it was a matter for the fund s board.Last week, the resources minister, Matt Canavan, called on Queensland banking customers to boycott Westpac, in contrast to moves in the first term of the Coalition to . May I suggest those Queenslanders seeking a home loan or a bank deposit or some such in the next few months might want to back a bank that is backing the interests of Queenslanders,  Canavan said last week. in Brisbane for an update on the progress of the Carmichael mine.On Sunday he confirmed that Adani had not asked Westpac for finance but was speaking to other financiers. They re in a comfortable position but I am worried about what signal it sends for other projects right across Australia but including in the Galilee Basin,  Canavan said on Sunday.Canavan argued the case for government funding of the Adani rail line, saying the company s coal would be stranded. Obviously without a rail line, your coal s stranded in the ground,  Canavan said.  Every other coal basin in this country has been developed through government investment in rails and ports. Normally they have been built by governments and owned by governments. Canavan also broadened his criticism of Australian banks for their lending choices.He described Westpac s commitment to mining as  underwhelming , given 1% of the bank s loan book goes to mining, even though mining contributed 8% to GDP. Some of our major banks seem more focused on investing in real estate than they do investing in the growth of our country,  Canavan said.  And [we] often have to go overseas to other pension funds and banks to look for interest in developing our nation. 