magine walking into your office, being welcomed by name as you walk through security, handed a coffee exactly as you like it and directed to a free quiet space that has the ideal comfort setting for the report you have to write that morning. Sound too good to be true? Maybe not, according to Preeti Bajaj, vice-president of strategy and transformation at the French multinational Schneider Electric.The age of the smart building is upon us, Bajaj argues in a new report, , and scenarios such as the one described could soon become commonplace as businesses look to make their office spaces smarter, more efficient and more people friendly. It would be a mistake to think about a smart building being just building-centric,  Bajaj says.  It s something that is smart enough to connect people and places together. Most commercial buildings in Australia already have building management systems in place to monitor and adjust energy and water usage for maximum efficiency. Take the , for example. The Adelaide research building uses an integrated building system that coordinates all of the building s technologies   from heating and cooling, to hydraulics, fire monitoring, lighting, security and lab controls   in a single platform. The system has reportedly helped to save 18% in whole building energy savings.The next stage in smart buildings is about improving the occupants  experience, maximising space and managing individual sections of the building. So, for example, by installing sensors into a building to monitor where people are, the management system could predict which areas are not likely to be used at a certain time and save energy costs by turn off the lighting and climate control in those areas.The Sydney office of the professional services company Deloitte, for instance, requires staff to log into an internal network once in the building to show where they are sitting, which helps management identify what space is being used when (and if there is any  dead  space) and how many people are in the building at any given time.Likewise, ANZ Bank reviewed its workspace utilisation by using sensors to identify which areas were most occupied and brought in new, modular furniture (such as locker bays on wheels that doubled as room separators, and mobile kitchens) to make the most of its space.This type of space utilisation monitoring isn t without its controversies though. In January, the UK s Daily Telegraph  that used heat and motion sensors to monitor whether people were at their desks. The aim was to understand when desks were occupied and whether any efficiencies could be made on space but a failure to notify staff of the trial before it launched created a backlash amongst the workforce, who felt threatened by being monitored. The company removed the devices less than a day later after it was  for carrying out  surveillance  on its staff.Bajaj says that although smart buildings often track where people are in the building,  it isn t about tracking who is where, it s about tracking where people are in terms of whether spaces are being used effectively .She adds that protecting privacy by ensuring the data is anonymous is of the utmost importance when using this type of technology, as is communication and trust with staff.  Workplace solutions are at the intersect of people and culture teams, technology teams and building design. You cannot implement a space utilisation solution and not communicate it with anyone. It will not work and people will not trust it. You have to do the proper implementation. You have to convince everyone to adopt it and see if they like it. Some businesses are considering going one step further though, by monitoring staff interactions and conversation levels in a bid to boost productivity. Last year  to measure their call centre employees  interactions and understand key times of collaboration. By asking staff to wear a smart badge, managers could access information about how often their staff spoke, how long they were interacting with other staff and where they were in the building. To ensure privacy is protected, staff were asked to take part on an opt-in basis and only anonymous data was delivered to managers.It found that productivity and engagement were highest among employees with the most cohesive networks and that 80% of group interaction was during overlaps in lunch breaks. The bank therefore trialled an overlap of coffee breaks too and found that   when compared with staggered breaks   employee stress readings dropped by 19%, call completion rose by 23% and turnover fell from 40% to 12%.This sort of technology could soon come to Australia. The Activate to Collaborate survey found that 89% of Australian business leaders agreed or strongly agreed that they would be open to the idea of gathering data on employee location and activities if it made them more productive.But while Schneider s report notes that 83% of 100 industry representatives from the Australian corporate real estate sector surveyed agreed that smart building technologies were an important part of their company s business, workplace and real estate strategy, only 43% agreed that companies were prepared to pay a higher rent or increased service charge to locate in one.The problem, Bajaj says, lies in two main barriers: uncertainty over who is responsible for providing a smart building in the first place (i.e. the tenant or the developer) and a hesitance on being the  brave first-mover who is prepared to be the pioneer in this area  and demonstrate the return on investment. It s not about deploying every single smart gadget,  she says.  It s about being in the design space and asking what could the building be, how you can make it a positive space for users, what is the optimum for today and what could it do in future. 