Len Goodman will follow in the footsteps of David Jason, Pauline Collins and an extraterrestrial as one of Christmas TV s top challenges for the people tasked with keeping the lights on.When the judge finishes , kettles will be boiled, lights switched on and water company pumps powered up as toilets are flushed across the UK.National Grid forecasts the ballroom dancer s show, , will drive the festive season s biggest  TV pickup , a sudden post-show spike in electricity demand. The Great British Bake Off, the Strictly Christmas special and Call the Midwife are also top of this year s watch list. The three biggest Christmas Day pickups of all time are Only Fools and Horses, ET and Shirley Valentine. It s literally picking up the Radio Times and seeing what people are interested in,  said Jeremy Caplin, forecasting manager at the , who is not much of a soap watcher but knows most of their plots from listings. It is definitely art rather than science. Every morning somebody will go through the previous day and fill in the database to see what programme had a pickup. We can use that history to predict what will happen going forward.  Caplin and his team also monitor social media and shows  plots to make their forecasts. The smallest but still  significant chunk  of the post-show surge comes from people rushing from the sofa to the toilet, and water companies  pumps simultaneously drawing electricity. Next is people flicking the lights on, which accounts for about a 10th of demand, and the largest demand comes from water being boiled for cups of tea and coffee.The power usually comes from places such as  on the edge of Snowdonia national park, where water is pumped uphill to a reservoir at times when electricity demand is low   and later released to turn turbines and rapidly generate electricity. Such  pumped hydro  accounts for around 70-80% of power for a pickup, with the rest mostly from large coal and gas power stations. There are other options but it s what they re [pumped hydro] designed to do,  said Caplin, although the success of batteries in  suggests they may one day play a role in coping with our viewing habits.  In coming years we see more variety of sources, purely because of price on the day. I can imagine batteries coming on in the future instead of pumped storage. Christmas Day is unique compared to the average day for the grid. A typical day s peak demand comes in early morning and then early evening, but on 25 December the biggest demand is between noon and 2pm as turkeys are roasted. And an increasing number of those will be cooked by solar power   about three-quarters compared to half last year, according to the grid s weather-dependent calculations. Bad weather also means the TV pickups are likely to be bigger, as more people are huddled inside and on the sofa. But today s pickups are, like the importance of the Queen s speech, not what they used to be. The spikes have been getting smaller over the decades, especially since their 90s heydays, when Del Boy and Rodney at Sotheby s set the record at 1,600 megawatts, half the capacity of the new nuclear power station planned for . Part of the decline is due to lighting getting more efficient. A modern LED bulb can provide the same illumination of an old-fashioned 100W incandescent bulb   which are now banned from sale due to EU rules   for about a 10th of the energy.  The lighting effect is a lot smaller than it was,  said Caplin.The other big change is not so much in what we watch   Eastenders and Coronation Street still feature high up in the lists as they did two decades ago   but how we watch. You ve got many more channels and you ve got more flexibility in the scheduling. It s not necessarily a reflection of the programming,  said Toby Syfret, TV analyst at Enders Analysis. As he points out, there has been a massive expansion in the number of TV channels, meaning the  linear competition  is much greater. Viewing shares of channels have plummeted accordingly, with .  The really important reason is the fragmentation,  Syfret said.The other big reason, he said, is timeshifting via features such as Sky+, catchup services and  +1  channels.  If you ve got a really popular programme, there s less need to watch it at a particular moment. As we get more connected TV, there s more erosion of audience at particular times,  he said.But while Caplin says there s no doubting the long-term trend, he doesn t expect to stop reading the Radio Times any time soon.  With reality TV, people are wanting to watch it live because they ll find out on social media in 10 seconds. So you have to watch it live for the surprise. 