La Trobe has become the first university in Australia to commit to a complete divestment from fossil fuels, the university council endorsing a plan to do so over the next five years.It is a significant win for staff and students who have campaigned for the outcome on campuses around the country.In a statement, the university said:  The change was in response to suggestions by a group of student and staff passionate about reducing the impact of climate change and lobbied university leaders to change its investment strategy. Divestment campaigns on campuses in Australia and elsewhere have been led by the activist group , which welcomed the announcement on Wednesday. They have shown other universities that it is possible, and I look forward to other institutions following their lead,  said  s national campus divestment coordinator, Ray Yoshida.La Trobe s vice-chancellor, John Dewar, said the university believed that profitability and sustainability were compatible. We are committed to divesting from the top-200 publicly traded fossil fuel companies, ranked by the carbon content of their fossil-fuel reserves, within five years,  he said. In addition, we will disclose the carbon exposure of our investments and provide annual reports of our divestment progress over the next five years. The chief financial officer, Gary Seach, said the university had a relatively small portfolio, and so used a managed fund and wasn t able to pick-and-choose exactly which companies it invested in.But he said they were working to avoid investment in the top-200 fossil-fuel companies over five years, and the overall aim was complete divestment. By doing that, they hoped to help create a managed fund that was free of fossil fuels.Seach said:  There is a growing list of like-minded investors who want to make sustainable investments and we look forward to working with them and pooling our funds to help deliver on our commitment to a triple bottom line. The La Trobe student and  Fossil Free  campaigner Michaela Carter said:  We know that fossil fuels are directly contributing to devastating climate change, so the moral imperative for tertiary institutions to divest is strong. How can universities purport to be future-focussed organisations when their investments are directly funding the climate chaos? Today s decision vindicates years of work to get the university to take a responsible attitude toward their investment portfolio. La Trobe s move follows the move towards partial divestment by the Australian National University in 2014. ANU divested from seven resource companies, selling about $16m worth of shares. The move attracted a torrent of criticism in editorials in the Australian financial press, and even the country s treasurer at the time, Joe Hockey, , describing ANU as  removed from the reality of what is helping to drive the Australian economy and create more employment .In March this year hundreds of academics and other staff at the ANU called on the university to divest completely from fossil fuels, in  addressed to the ANU council.The letter, signed by 450 academics and general staff, commended the university for withstanding pressure from critics, and called on it to divest all its holdings in fossil fuel companies.