Just a few months ago, the idea that a new coal power station would ever be built in Australia seemed laughable. ,  and  seemed to accept the inevitable decline of the coal industry.But, since then, the Turnbull government has been furiously  the idea of  clean  coal. And while no bank is likely to finance the building of a new coal-fired power station here, Turnbull and his ministers have been indicating the government might themselves fund them.There s been a lot of spin in this debate, so here are some facts.The term  clean coal  has recently been repurposed by the Turnbull government. Traditionally, it was a marketing term used by the coal industry to refer to coal power stations where the CO2 emissions would be captured and stored.But, in recent months, Turnbull and his ministers have been using the term  clean coal  to refer to what are called  ultra supercritical  coal power plants. These plants run at a higher temperature than ordinary coal power stations and reduce emissions by about 25%.But that is 25% lower than some of the dirtiest power plants around. Ultra supercritical power plants still produce about 740kg of CO2 per MWh   that s compared with 400kg from efficient gas plants and the zero grams from wind and solar.The International Energy Agency   hardly a green group   has said OECD nations  in order to keep global temperature rises below 2C.Turnbull ministers have indicated they might use the Clean Energy Finance Corporation to finance new coal power stations.  It s called the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, not the  Renewable  Finance Corporation    that s an important distinction,  said the energy and environment minister, Josh Frydenberg, on ABC Radio National on Thursday.It does seem possible the government could use the CEFC to fund coal but it requires some serious contortions.The existing CEFC legislation explicitly rules out the funding of carbon capture and storage technology. So without changing the legislation, they would be only be able to fund plants that don t use that technology.But the CEFC could only finance a coal power station if it determined it was a  low emissions technology . However, the act does not directly define what a low emissions technology is. Instead, the board must make guidelines that define the term.The current guidelines interpret  clean energy technology  as one that produces 50% fewer emissions than the rest of the electricity grid. That seems reasonable and would rule out the funding of any coal power plant.In 2015 the national electricity market produced 0.81 tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalent for each megawatt hour of electricity.Now, the most advanced coal power stations in the world currently emit about 740kg of carbon dioxide for each megawatt hour of electricity. That s less than a 10% improvement over the existing electricity grid.(Advanced versions of the plants, which don t currently exist, could potentially reach 640kg per MWh, which even then is only a 20% improvement over the existing grid.)No coal power station will fit within the current definition of  clean energy technology .Frydenberg could write a new investment mandate, telling the CEFC that coal technology should be financed. That would probably force the CEFC to change their definition of  clean energy technology  to be consistent with ultra supercritical coal.So, in effect, the government would need to force the CEFC to change the definition of  clean energy  from one that is 50% better than the existing tech to one that is just 10% or 20% better.And that s just compared to Australia s relatively dirty grid. The most efficient coal power stations are significantly more polluting than the average of electricity generator in other OECD countries, which the  was 420kg per MWh in 2014.All that aside, the CEFC would still need to decide that investing in a new coal power plants was a good commercial decision, since they need to make money on their loan. They would also need to find an energy company to build the plant. But, with , it s hard to see how that could happen.Tim Buckley from the Institute for  Economics and Financial Analysis said the CEFC would likely see the loan as a bad bet. The stranded asset risks of investing in new coal-fired power plants are clear to almost all,  Buckley said.  At some point a carbon tax or ETS is inevitable and would need to be priced in. Buckley said if that happened, the CEFC could well be stranded with any loan it s given to coal power stations.Turnbull said in his National Press Club speech on Wednesday that  it s security and cost that matter most, not how you deliver it .But new coal technology is not cheaper than renewable energy.The US Energy Information Agency  the cost of energy from various types of coal power plants and renewable energy plants.They found that ultra supercritical coal power plants were about twice as expensive to build per unit of energy, compared to wind farms, and almost 40% more expensive than solar farms.Then coal power stations have higher ongoing maintenance costs, as well as significant fuel costs, compared with the wind and solar where the fuel is free.Dylan McConnell from the Melbourne Energy Institute at the University of Melbourne said if those costs were recovered through energy prices, that would push energy prices up.Tennant Reed from the Australian Industry Group  that wholesale electricity prices that are currently worrying big energy consumers have been sitting at about $75 per MWh. But recent projections by the CSIRO suggest the ultra supercritical coal generators would produce electricity at a cost of about $80 per MWh. To build a coal plant with such costs, investors would need to expect wholesale prices to rise even above looming levels and stay there for decades,  Reed wrote.Reed also pointed out that the $80 per MWh projection was optimistic, since it was assuming that the power plants were being used at about 80% of their capacity, which was much higher than was generally the case.Meanwhile, new wind and solar will produce electricity at about $75-85/MWh today and that price will decrease in coming years.Buckley says:  So renewables are already at grid parity or cheaper than new USC coal-fired power, they can be built more modularly and five times faster, they have 100% emissions reduction relative to the PR spin called  clean coal , they conform to our Paris CO2 commitments and they are likely to get finance   unlike a new coal-fired power plant. 