inkley Point C, the multibillion pound nuclear deal, years in the making, is on the cusp of unravelling. At the last minute,  in order to take a hard look at what Hinkley is offering in return for  37bn of energy consumers  money.The voices of opposition are growing. Even newspapers which have supported the nuclear industry are raising doubts. Its supporters chant the same mantra: there is no alternative, Britain needs Hinkley to keep the lights on. That was the warning from the then business secretary,  yet the lights are still on and Lord Hutton is now the chairman of the Nuclear Industry Association.But the world - and the electricity landscape - has changed radically since 2008.Then,  of the UK s electricity came from renewables. . Costs have.  and the It is ranked  which is on course to , much more than Hinkley C. The cost for wind and solar is coming down too. The way we increasingly get our energy is changing. The former chief executive of the National Grid, Steve Holliday, said that the idea that we need nuclear power stations to provide baseload electricity .Baseload is the trump card of Hinkley s supporters: how do we keep the lights on when the sun isn t shining and the wind isn t blowing? But the National Grid predictsand distributed generation will represent a third of total capacity in the UK. The future is more local and in our control. It will also provide more jobs and greater energy security at increasingly lower cost.Intermittent supply is already being tackled with interconnectors - basically, huge cables connecting the UK with European countries like Norway to manage variations in supply coming from renewables. They could be hugely expanded. But renewables and interconnectors are only part of the answer.Electricity demand is not constant. At peak times, there can be up to  compared to the average   typically when people get home from work in the early evening and prepare their evening meal, especially in winter.This demand needs to be met with power generation which can be switched on, sometimes at very short notice. Hydropower does this   with reservoirs in places like Scotland, Wales and Sweden being filled up at a time of low demand, so water can be released through turbines when demand is high.Existing gas-fired plants can also be fired up at short notice, but this comes with a carbon cost. The point is to use it only when back up is required and only until alternatives become mainstream.The real leap forward will come with improved storage. You can also look at energy demand another way.Rather than building lots of extra capacity to meet intermittent peaks, could those peaks be lower by shutting down demand where and when it s not needed?Google and Tesla are already experimenting with smart energy   managing how gadgets are switched on and off.  systems and the thinking behind them are changing fast. What happened in just a few years with telephones - where we moved from centralised exchanges and fixed landlines to mobile phones - is about to happen with energy systems. Hinkley is a roadblock in this transition.And then there s the Cinderella of them all - energy efficiency. The less we use, the easier the problem is to solve. If all street lights were switched to LED bulbs we could take half a GW of demand off the grid with ease.If all homes did the same, we d save 2.7GW of power at peak use - that s nearly the equivalent of Hinkley by just changing the lightbulbs. The UK has come a long way since 2008   the year parliament passed the Climate Change Act, which committed the UK to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. We are already halfway there with emissions down 40%.A low-carbon future is essential. So is energy security and affordable energy. If we are to deliver on all three, there is a huge investment opportunity across renewable energy, interconnectors, energy storage, smart grids and energy efficiency. We mustn t squander that money and opportunity on Hinkley Point C. We would like to publish your ideas about how to power Britain. Please send them to .