Independent tests in the US have found that the energy consumption of  and LG TV sets nosedives under test conditions but can soar by up to 45% in real-world use, raising questions of manipulation by software devices.TVs from the top three best selling US brands - Samsung,  and Vizio - have also been found to be switching off power-saving features without warning, as soon as consumers make  out of the box  changes to their main picture menu settings, which can double the TV sets  energy usage. If just a third of LG, Samsung and Vizio TV owners changed their sets  pre-programmed picture settings, they could end up paying $1.2bn ( 920m) extra on their energy bills and releasing an extra 5m tonnes of CO2 over the next 10 years, according to the  (NRDC), which commissioned the tests.Noah Horowitz, the director of the NRDC s centre for energy efficiency standards, said:  It appears that some major manufacturers have modified their TV designs to get strong energy-use marks during government testing but [they] may not perform as well in consumer homes.   These  under the hood  changes dramatically increase a TV s energy use and environmental impact, usually without the user s knowledge. While this may not be illegal, it smacks of bad-faith conduct that falls outside the intent of the government test method designed to accurately measure TV energy use. In 2015, the NRDC began testing several manufacturers  ultra high-definition TVs in collaboration with the  consultancy. More comprehensive laboratory and in-store tests were carried out this year of TV sets by firms, also including Sony, Phillips and Panasonic. The NRDC says that its results were shared with all TV manufacturers and none questioned their accuracy.The software involved  which is cited in the NRDC study. It is a feature known as  motion-detection dimming  (MDD), which Samsung retails in European stores as part of the firms  9,000 and 7,000 series. It is not clear whether the exact models - the Samsung UN55JU7100, Samsung UN55JS9000 and LG 58UF8300 - are sold in Britain. But the product lines share the same screen size and many of the same or similar features.The energy performance of all TVs is highly dependent on brightness and other settings, and a  is expected to announce its results later this year. The NRDC says that after being informed of the US test results, Samsung, LG and Vizio all said that they would consider modifying their TVs to address its concerns. However, John Taylor, a Vice President at LG stressed that  LG disputes the findings in the report. LG has followed both the letter and spirit of the DoE [US Department of Energy] test procedure for TV energy testing, and we take great exception to the assertion that LG is  exploiting a loophole  in the government test procedure.  Taylor said the company was critical of the NRDC s test methodology and conclusions, particularly over the issue of  normal viewing .  There is no consensus on how to define  normal viewing,  he added.  The NRDC s  normal viewing  test clip and LG s  normal viewing  test clip show significantly different results.  Samsung maintains that MDD reduces power whenever any video motion is detected and so is a bona fide energy-saving measure. The company said in a statement that its TVs comply with US government guidelines and regulations:  Samsung firmly rejects the accusation that we are misleading consumers. Our energy star rating is based on the default setting of our TVs. The majority of users stay within the default viewing settings through the lifetime of their television. Furthermore, we strongly believe that consumers should always have the option to customize the viewing experience on their TV. Our motion lighting and auto brightness control are default settings in our TVs. They are designed to save energy for consumers in real-world viewing conditions. Motion lighting reduces screen brightness when the picture on the screen is in motion. Auto brightness control adjusts the brightness of the TV automatically according to the ambient light level to reduce power consumption. Both are part of a range of features we have developed to help reduce the environmental impact of our TV technology. Our TVs have additional viewing settings for specific user preferences in which motion lighting and automatic brightness control are not active by default. Consumers are notified of this.  While the NRDC accepts that TV firms may be trying to improve their customers  perceived enjoyment of programmes, the study says that they have nonetheless  taken questionable actions that run counter to the spirit of the law .Because the MDD feature reduced its TV sets  power usage during US Department of  (DoE) tests   by an average of 22% compared to real-world situations, but by 45% in one LG TV   the report suggests that manufacturers could be gaming the industry-designed International Electrotechnical Commission test clip.This is a distinctive 10-minute video spool of unusually short scenes, which is unlike normal sports, drama or news programme viewing.   We observed inexplicable, dramatic and sustained drops in energy use in TVs,  the report says,  beginning within the first minute of the video test loop used in the Department of Energy test method for new TV models.    It is possible that some manufacturers have designed their TVs to detect the continuous occurrence of short scenes and frequent scene cuts and to  optimise  their performance to reduce power when content with these characteristics is displayed. This would allow a TV manufacturer to gain a competitive advantage by publishing a low-energy usage rating, which does not reflect the products  likely performance in a real-world setting. Where the automatic   and often tough to reverse   brightening of screens is concerned, the NRDC report was unequivocal. Samsung, LG, and Vizio, which together represent half of all the new televisions sold in the United States, have designed their TVs to disable energy-saving features whenever users change the main picture setting,  the report says.When viewers altered their TV s default settings   from  normal  to  cinema  for example   features such as MDD and automatic brightness control (ABC) were automatically disabled, the report found. With many Samsung TVs, a simple change to the contrast, brightness or backlight settings would disable the MDD feature, without any warning to users.  If the MDD feature truly was intended to deliver energy savings and potentially reduce eye fatigue when content with certain characteristics is viewed, why would LG and Samsung design their TVs to disable this feature when the user selects a different picture setting?  the report asked. Taylor said that LG was currently adding software for consumer notifications to its latest models, which informed consumers that changing picture modes could hike energy consumption rates.  It also allows consumers to turn on energy saving features in various picture modes,  Taylor said, adding that LG was also planning to enhance the ABC features in its 2017 TV models.  We look forward to working with the DoE and stakeholders to develop a new test clip going forward,  he said. The NRDC report identifies failings in the current test regime are a significant cause of the poor results in its survey.Chris Calwell, Ecos s principal researcher said:  The global standard video clip on which the DoE test method is based is eight years old and needs a major overhaul. DoE should update its test method with more realistic video content, including video encoded in high dynamic range (HDR), to ensure that the resulting measurements are closer to what consumers would actually experience when using their TVs at home.  In the meantime, the  is calling for the European commission to outlaw the use of  defeat devices    where this is proven   and oblige TV manufacturers to inform consumers about changes to settings or software updates that could negatively impact on their sets  home energy consumption.