Today, Donald Trump signed  taking aim at America s climate policies. On the heels of a report finding that  to avoid dangerous climate change, Trump s order would instead increase America s carbon pollution, to the exclusive benefit of the fossil fuel industry. One part of the executive order tells the EPA to review and revise (weaken) its  and methane regulations. However, revising these regulations isn t so simple. It requires proceeding through the same years-long rulemaking process the EPA used to create the rules in the first place. This involves considering the scientific evidence, crafting draft rules, responding to millions of public comments, and defending the new plan in court. Environmental attorneys are confident  A second part of the executive order tells the EPA to ignore the government s estimated price on carbon pollution. The Republican Party wants to lower the current estimate, but most evidence indicates . Trump gets around this inconvenient evidence by ordering the EPA to simply deny the existence of those costs.A third part of the executive order ends a moratorium on new coal leases on public lands before a review is completed to determine if taxpayers are being shortchanged due to the lands being sold too cheaply. Environmental groups are set to immediately challenge this order. Regardless, lifting the moratorium would have .EPA administrator Scott Pruitt would undoubtedly be happy to follow Trump s orders. In his previous job as Oklahoma Attorney General and fossil fuel industry puppet, . However, . Trump and Pruitt may not like it, but the law, scientific evidence, and  fall squarely against them.A few weeks ago, , and it s also  and . Among other cuts, it would slash nearly one-third of the EPA budget, hundreds of millions of dollars from the NOAA research budget, and terminate four NASA Earth science missions as part of a $102 million cut to the agency s Earth science program. The budget even goes as far as to    a purely voluntary program that helps companies certify energy efficient products, saving Americans money while cutting carbon pollution in the process   Trump s anti-science and anti-climate agenda doesn t come as a surprise; before he even took office, there were early signs that Trump would put public health at risk by scrapping climate and other environmental policies. He began by  to powerful positions in his administration. Those appointees quickly made their influence known, launching an inquisition into Department of Energy staffers who had worked on climate change, trying to gag government scientists, and scrap the EPA climate webpage.In the face of public outcry, . But they regrouped, and over the past several weeks have surged forward with a rejuvenated attack on climate science, environmental protection, and the future of our planet and its inhabitants, to the benefit of big polluters with big wallets. Meanwhile,  found that Trump has moved to fill just one out of 46 key government science and technology positions. And for the position of presidential science advisor, .With its new administrator Scott Pruitt confirmed by Senate Republicans,  EPA  now seems to stand for  Environmental Plunder Agency.  In an interview on ABC s This Week on Sunday,  than in protecting the environment. To that, :In one of his first Tweets after taking the job, Pruitt spoke of the stakeholders whose interests he sought to protect:Soon thereafter, the EPA s  A few days later, Pruitt  research,  when asked on CNBC if carbon dioxide is the primary control knob for the climate:Pruitt was wrong on both points   carbon dioxide is the main climate control knob (NASA scientists even published ), and there is a . Predictably, , not just from climate scientists but also from business, military, faith, and conservative leaders and elected officials. For example, leading climate scientist Kevin Trenberth said:Pruitt has been  from Senator James   Inhofe s office.  and former Inhofe advisor Andrew Wheeler to be Pruitt s EPA deputy chief.Pruitt also hired Washington State Senator Douglas Ericksen, who actively fought the state s proposed carbon tax, and who invited an obscure climate denier blogger named Tony Heller to testify before a Washington State Senate committee . To put that in perspective, invited witnesses are normally given just a few minutes to testify. University of Washington climate scientist  - an actual climate expert - had spoken to a State House committee two weeks earlier, for 8 minutes. As the Trump administration unleashed its assault on science and the climate, we learned that . Despite the last El Ni o event ending nearly a year ago, , behind only the El Ni o-amplified 2016, pushing the world into what the WMO calls   Arctic and Antarctic sea ice are at . Research is finding .  about global warming than at any time in the past 8 years.Fortunately, Trump s efforts to roll back environmental regulations will be fought in court, and his budget proposal only tells Congress what he d like to see. Nevertheless, it s a dangerous time for America s leaders to be denying climate change, defunding its scientific research, and unraveling its climate policies. Science always wins in the end, and if we fight it, we will lose.During  of his anti-climate executive orders, Trump announced,  My administration is ending the war on coal.  Their wars on science and the Earth s climate, on the other hand, are in full force.