If ever there was going to be a climate change election, surely this was going to be it.As May came and the election date was announced, the implications of the global Paris agreement between more than 190 countries just months earlier were still resonating   the world was moving away from fossil fuels and the challenge to keep global warming well below 2C was agreed.The globe had just had its . April was the 12th consecutive month to break global heat records. In Australia, we just had the . Levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, taken at Cape Grim in Tasmania, , driven by the burning of fossil fuels. Moves to cut climate research at the CSIRO made international headlines. And then, of course, there was the worst global coral bleaching event on record, bookmarked by the , killing about a quarter of all corals mostly in the once  pristine  northern section. This disaster coincided with the hottest sea surface temperatures on the reef in the Bureau of Meteorology s records going back to 1900.So climate change and clean energy should have been the red-hot issue. But instead, at least between the ALP and the Coalition, the reaction to these seismic events was, mostly, meh. David Ritter, chief executive of Greenpeace Australia Pacific, says the reef s plight should have been the  tragic starting gun  for an election where all parties pitched a vision  for how Australia can flourish in a world of new technologies, renewable energy and cleaned up political economy .Instead, the political response was  tragically inadequate . The political debate has lacked all sense of proportion,  he says, reserving particular disappointment that the prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, had . It is as if  may have gone, but the bad breath of climate denialism still lingers across the government.  I ve spoken to several leaders in the climate and environment movement in the past couple of days and one message comes through consistently. While poll after poll shows the Australian public wants action, there s a distinct lack of leadership from the ALP and the Coalition. Only the Greens have consistently shown leadership   which goes almost without saying.John Connor, chief executive of the Climate Institute, says climate was  knocking on the door  but continued to be only a  tier two issue  for the main parties.Although the ALP had a  demonstrably stronger platform  for climate change and a transition to clean energy, there was a  credibility gulf  between both main parties, their leaders and the public. The public just doesn t believe them,  he says. Connor believes that whichever party gains power, the Paris climate agreement will force the hand of the next government. As part of the process, the UN will carry out a global stocktake of climate pledges from all countries in 2018. The Paris agreement also ensures that future pledges to cut emissions improve over time. They ve danced around it this time, but they will have to grapple with it very soon,  he says.  This is all a curtain raiser for the next 12 months and the parties  credibility will be put to the test. Could one reason for the lack of leadership and low profile for the issues be down to the funding that major parties get from the fossil fuel and mining industry and the close relationships which those industries have forged across the political spectrum?Blair Palese, chief executive of the climate campaign group 350.org Australia, thinks that is a big part of the story.Her group ran a  campaign trying to get candidates to sign a simple pledge:  I support a ban on donations from fossil-fuel companies and a ban on subsidies to fossil-fuel companies. Palese says the campaign clearly touched a nerve with the Liberals who cited it six times in its   scare campaign.Not surprisingly, no Liberals signed the pledge, but there were some successes. All sitting Greens MPs and senators signed, as have 18 Greens candidates.Serving ALP member for Richmond, Justine Elliot, signed the pledge, as did three ALP candidates: Janelle Saffin (Page), David Atkins (Cook) and Steve Hegedus (Ryan).Other notable signatories include independents Andrew Wilkie (Denison), Rob Oakeshott (Cowper) and Rob Taber (New England).Palese says after the election her group will push harder for a reform of the opaque system of political donations and for a national corruption commission to be established.Palese, too, says there has been a lack of leadership, particularly on the need to prepare communities and workers for the unfolding transition away from coal to renewables. There is a terrifying lack of leadership   at national and state level   and it means workers are being left high and dry,  she says.Announcing its election  (links to others at the bottom of this post), WWF Australia s chief executive, Dermot O Gorman, said as the environment faced huge challenges  this generation of political leaders has not yet stepped up to reflect the concerns of the vast majority of Australians .The Australian Conservation Foundation s chief executive, Kelly O Shanassy, is similarly unimpressed with the political leadership. Only thanks to momentum from community groups and the tragic bleaching of the reef had the issues been pushed briefly into the limelight. The Coalition just didn t want to talk about it   their policies are quite weak,  she says.  The ALP has much stronger clean energy transition policies, but neither leader has led the charge.  O Shanassy believes one campaign from a coalition of environment groups, including ACF, WWF and The Wilderness Society, called , has helped to push environmental law reform on to the ALP s policy platform. For a country with such a beautiful natural environment, we have such incredibly weak laws,  she says.The Coalition did make one major environmental announcement when Turnbull joining the environment minister, Greg Hunt, in Townsville to reveal a $1bn reef fund. But campaign groups were quick to criticise the plan. Not only was it several billions short of , but the announcement was just a shifting of existing cash from the Clean Energy Finance Corporation which the Coalition has been trying to shut down. There s no additional carbon reduction benefit from that,  says Imogen Zethoven, Great Barrier Reef campaign director at the Australian Marine Conservation Society.  We did send the Coalition a series of questions on that announcement, but we didn t get any answers. It raises more questions than it answers. She says one major win was a policy commitment from Labor to regulate pollution levels flowing into the reef.  That is not to be underestimated,  she says.  That would be a major step forward. So who should you vote for if you want to improve the chances of survival for the reef and Australia s unique habitats and help the country make the inevitable transition away from fossil fuels?To help with that decision, in recent days the , , the  and the  have all published assessments of the key parties on their environment and climate polices.You should read them and then go and vote.