How do you sell a plan that is ostensibly about reducing emissions from electricity generation, to a room sprinkled with vocal pro-coal climate sceptics? Well, that was the task the environment and energy minister, Josh Frydenberg, was faced with when he stood before the Coalition joint party room earlier this week. And Fairfax Media obtained and  a copy of the presentation Frydenberg used.So, here s how you convince a room full of coal-lovers that the Finkel review is good for coal   featuring slides from Frydenberg s presentation.No matter what you think of coal, its role in producing electricity in Australia is doomed. Australia s biggest polluter, AGL, , and plans to close all its coal power stations by mid-century. By then, even without any incentives for cleaner electricity, almost all of Australia s coal power stations will be closed. As Frydenberg s chart shows, 10 have closed in the past seven years, and between now and 2040, almost all the rest will shut too.This chart looks like something you d expect a Labor politician to present, rather than a Liberal. It shows that after the carbon price was repealed, prices dipped slightly, and then continued under the  government to rise to previously unseen highs.Yep: the 30% of the cost that is generation, Frydenberg reminded those in the party room, was their fault.  Policy uncertainty holding back new investment,  he put on the screen. As coal power stations inevitably closed, the policy uncertainty meant new cheaper generators (like wind and solar) were not being built, so gas generators (which are expensive) were able to set the price in the market more often., the Finkel review modelling shows the whole scheme does relatively little for emissions from the national electricity market.Doing nothing at all will see emissions continue to drop by about 5% below current levels. Putting in place Finkel s recommended clean energy target results in a further drop of less than 10%.Using the chart from Finkel s report, which has a full vertical axis, this is even more stark:All their mates   the fossil fuel industry, the country s biggest polluters, big business   they all love the Finkel review.Just look at all those disgusting hippies   they hate the Finkel review. So it must be good.Those gross renewables? Don t worry, we ll make them have their own storage, even though actually, variability and storage balance is better managed at a system-wide level, not an individual generator level.In summary, if you want to introduce a clean energy target, and get climate sceptics to like it, just make sure that: a) it doesn t actually reduce emissions much; b) that it keeps coal power stations open for longer; c) that the whole idea was dreamed up by one of your conservative heroes and d) that the fossil fuel industry loves it but the greenies hate it.