he transition to a low carbon economy is already happening   in the , where the local Labor government has legislated for a 100% renewable energy target by the year 2020.But this major achievement is at risk on Saturday when residents of  go to the polls for territory elections.Renewable energy is  in Canberra. Eight in 10 Canberrans , and the city has one of the highest domestic installation bases (per capita) of rooftop solar. The reverse auctions that the ACT Labor-Green government used to achieve this target have helped create more than 510 jobs in the renewable energy sector (that s in the ACT alone   more have been created in other states where the wind farms are located), most of which are high-tech, high wage, and high skilled. That represents a 400% growth of renewable jobs in just five years, which is six times faster than any other state or territory in Australia.With such high levels of popularity, it is remarkable that the conservative opposition party, the Liberals, has for years opposed expansion of renewable energy. In 2014 the Canberra Liberals complained about the  ugly impact  of the renewable energy target. In 2015, they called the target  unfair . In April this year, they said the 100% target was  too much, too fast .  targets have been put back on the political agenda following the blackout in South Australia. Federal Liberal and National party politicians hit the airwaves without waiting for power to be restored to blame renewable energy for the blackout.Climate deniers, fossil fuel lobbyists and conservative politicians have spent the past fortnight tub-thumping for the end of state-based renewable energy targets and a halt to the expansion of new renewable energy construction. We ve already seen the impact of this kind of scare campaign. The anti-renewable energy policies of the Abbott government, and then the Turnbull government, put investment in renewables at risk over the past few years. By fuelling doubt about the renewable energy target, even threatening to repeal it, large-scale renewable s investors were scared off. This is important because the renewable energy industry is a big employer with the potential to be even bigger.The solar industry already employs more people than coal-fired generation across the country. In 2014 the solar industry employed more than 13,000 people and even with the uncertainty and watering down of the renewable energy target this is likely to have grown. By comparison, according to the 2011 census 8,000 people worked in fossil fuel electricity generation. Sadly, fossil fuel companies around Australia are betraying the workers who have kept old coal-fired power stations running for decades, with several stations abruptly shut down and the workers abandoned. This underscores the importance of governments committed to a just transition that respects working people and their communities.Across the world the trend is clear. For the last six years in a row renewables outpaced fossil fuels in net investment and capacity additions. New large-scale renewable installations totalled US$286bn in 2016.When the Abbott government announced in 2014 that it wanted to scrap the renewable energy target, no new wind farms were constructed for 16 months because of the policy uncertainty. It was the ACT s renewable energy target that  and .With the federal Coalition government again demonising renewables, the states and territories, including the ACT, have stepped in with local targets. It was a bizarre spectacle and deeply damaging to his credibility for the prime minister to use a natural disaster to mount a political attack against state-based renewable energy targets. It was even more unseemly that both the prime minister and the energy minister were politicising the natural disaster while it was still happening. With no evidence, Turnbull and his conservative cheer squad linked the successful South Australian uptake of renewable energy and the blackout. He also took a direct swipe at the Queensland and Victorian renewable energy targets.This is a very different Malcolm Turnbull than the one that said in 2009 that  I will not lead a party that is not as committed to effective action on climate change as I am.  Since taking the prime ministership in 2015 he has adopted almost every policy position of his predecessor Tony Abbott. After spending the past decade condemning, opposing and voting against the ACT s renewable energy target, the Canberra Liberals have had a, literally, unbelievable conversion. Facing an election where their only major election promise is to rip up contracts to build a solar-powered tram, the Canberra Liberals claim they now support, after years of opposing, renewables. Not once in the past several years has any elected ACT Liberal opposed their federal colleagues extreme position on renewables, or publicly support action on climate change.It is important to remember that in 2013 the Abbott Liberals supported the renewable energy target. Before the election, they stated they would make no change to the policy. Things turned out very different post-election.Renewable energy targets are a very effective way to increase the uptake of renewable energy but they require a government that is committed to achieving them. Without that commitment it is too easy for a government   which after Saturday s ACT election could be run by a party that spent a decade opposed to renewables   to backslide. The uncertainty that would be created for the renewables sector in Canberra, if the Liberals were elected, would be deeply damaging.The ACT renewable energy target requires a government with a genuine commitment to tackling climate change. It needs a government that has a vision for a clean energy city. It needs a government that understands important, but complicated, policy looks like reverse auctions. And it needs a government with ministers who genuinely want to see us transition to a cleaner, low carbon economy and city. The future security of 510 renewable energy jobs in Canberra rest on the outcome of the election this Saturday.