he global automotive industry and the oil majors are not known for meekly rolling over when a competitor comes along   from   involvement in killing public transport in Los Angeles in the 1940s to  to undermine EU renewables targets in more recent years.But recently, the world has started to see a new side to the sector:  If you can t beat them, join them; and if you can t join them, buy them out. This week Saudi Arabia announced a surprising new venture for the kingdom s vast oil-generated sovereign investment fund:  in Uber. The investment, which values the six-year-old taxi-hailing startup at $62.5bn, is one of the largest ever made in a privately held company, and is roughly the same size as the sum total of all investments in the UK s tech sector over the course of 2015, according to the venture capitalist David Galbraith.Saudi Arabia s goal with its investment fund is to use some of the state s  to make longstanding investments that will fund the future of the country once its oil economy begins to sputter. , the state-owned oil company that is the largest company in the world, can t be the engine for the country s economy forever.A week before Saudi Arabia s move, on 24 May, Germany s Volkswagen group made its own investment: , a rival to Uber formerly called GetTaxi. The same day Japan s Toyota made its own, unspecified, investment in Uber.From one angle, the investments look odd. Why are some of the world s biggest companies, with untold billions at stake in preserving the old order of things, putting their money behind startups that promise to change everything?The answer is that for the first time in its history, the industry has seen a change coming that it can t stop, and may not even be able to adapt to. has lofty goals. The company, which operates in 400 cities around the world, is best known in the UK as a digital cab dispatcher, sending private hire vehicles around 14 cities, sparking conflicts with local taxi firms and undercutting almost every other form of transport.There are more than 25,000 Uber drivers in London alone   more than the number of black cabs   and an Uber journey is started in the capital every second.But elsewhere in the world, where regulations are looser, it aims higher. UberPop allows anyone with a car to pick up passengers, while . In San Francisco, Uber has grown so popular that the company has introduced a feature called Smart Routes that lets people hail a ride to and from pre-specified, drop-off points to ease pick up and carpooling: in essence, the company just reinvented the bus.To really find out why Saudi Arabia and Toyota thought Uber was a good place to put their cash, it s worth looking at something the company announced two weeks ago: .Using a host of researchers poached from Pittsburgh s Carnegie-Mellon University, Uber has been quietly taking on Google and Apple in the race to develop self-driving cars. Ultimately, if Uber succeeds, it could be an existential threat for existing car companies.A self-driving taxi isn t something people use as well as owning a car. It s something they use instead. Without the cost of drivers  wages, the price of renting a taxi would plummet. Meanwhile, routing algorithms ensure there s always a car nearby when you need one, and limit the problems of traffic delaying rides in a busy city centre. In a world where people are buying cars on monthly plans    in the UK take place under these personal contract purchase deals)   it is not a big leap for the car companies to start worrying that people might do the calculations and decide that their next car could be an Uber. And the ride-sharing app, and its rivals, could soon be the car manufacturers  biggest customers. When VW unveiled its Gett investment the German firm said it expected the ride-sharers   or  innovative mobility services    to account for a  substantial share  of sales in the coming years. Matthias M ller, the VW chief executive, said he expected to sell the company s luxury marques for premium ride services:  In the future, what is to stop Gett drivers from chauffeuring their customers through the world s megacities in a Porsche Panamera or an Audi A8 with a special premium version of the app?  Gett drivers will be offered  attractive terms  on VW vehicles, including purchase finance, insurance and servicing.Toyota s deal with Uber is also about sales. It will offer drivers special leasing deals. Shigeki Tomoyama, the senior managing officer of  Motor Corporation, said on the day the investment was revealed:  Ride-sharing has huge potential in terms of shaping the future of mobility.  has made a similar investment in Scoop, a west coast-based carpooling service, and several others including in a fleet management software company and a car parking space locator. General Motors, meanwhile, has put $500m into Uber s rival , with a plan to both sell cars to drivers and to work together on driverless cars.  Together we will build a better future by redefining traditional car ownership,  said Lyft s co-founder and president, John Zimmer.When it comes to self-driving cars, making them electric is almost an afterthought. Many of the hurdles preventing widespread adoption of electric cars   like slow charging time and the need for a widespread infrastructure of chargers   are fixed once the vehicle can drive itself to the charger any time, day or night, and not inconvenience its owner.That s good news for the environment, since it s easy to use renewable energy to run a charger infrastructure (in fact, Tesla motors  a few of its superchargers with 100% solar power)   but it s easy to see why Saudi Arabia might be worried.For the giant motor and oil companies, all these startup and tech investments represent a belt and braces approach to future proofing their businesses. The current masters of industry are still trying to stay on top. Toyota, for instance, has , while Saudi Arabia is also investing in . But everyone needs a plan B, and this is theirs.