he ABC s political editor, Chris Uhlmann, has doubled down on  last week that South Australia s heavy reliance on wind generation is linked to the blackout. The former AM and 7.30 host also openly taunted his critics by tweeting his latest analysis with the comment that it  should keep the pitchfork crowd busy for days .One of the  pitchfork crowd  was , who asked in Renew Economy if Uhlmann was the  new face of the anti-wind lobby .  The problem with Uhlmann s line   apart from revealing his own personal prejudice, or ignorance   was that it was still being repeated as gospel by mainstream ABC new reports, on ABC News Radio and local stations, into Thursday morning. Power was still out, the reports said, because wind power  was not available .  The ABC has indeed received complaints, some 180  comments and complaints concerning aspects of the coverage of the South Australian blackout , including the analysis by Uhlmann on News 24 and online, a spokeswoman told Weekly Beast.  Mr Uhlmann first reported on issues relating to the South Australian electricity network and the national energy market on 25 September, a week ahead of the recent system-wide blackout,  she said.  That article and his analysis since the blackout have reported warnings by the Grattan Institute and other respected researchers that the rapid rise of renewables in  has created challenges for the reliability of electricity supply.  Mr Uhlmann did not attribute the power outage to reliance on renewables. However, he did point out the combination of previous price spikes and the South Australian blackout has put the issues of the security of the electricity network and the structure of the national energy market firmly on the political agenda. That is demonstrably true.  New Matilda s Ben Eltham was one of those who complained. He used Twitter to criticise Uhlmann and the ABC s coverage more generally.What sparked the ire of Parkinson, Eltham and others was that Uhlmann went on News 24 and radio immediately after the blackout and said that 40% of the state s power is wind generated and  that has the problem of being intermittent . In an online piece on the same day he warned that if wind energy goes unchecked  the entire nation might go to black . But, unbowed by the critics on Thursday,  in which he likened himself to a heretic who was being burned at the stake for his views and he accused his critics of being hysterical.  Now to dare suggest that the state s heavy reliance on wind generation might have made its grid more vulnerable to a blackout is heresy,  Uhlmann wrote. Uhlmann told Weekly Beast he was disappointed that some people immediately branded him as  anti-renewable or a climate change denier  just because he was pointing out that there are engineering problems associated with wind energy. Uhlmann:  Why wouldn t we [at the ABC] be interested in what is going on in the South Australian energy market when there are a number of signals something is awry? And we took this cause up before the current blackout.  Asked why, as political editor, he was spending so much time on this issue he said:  These are things that I would have thought a journalist would be interested in. This is an absolute legitimate line of inquiry. I find myself in a position where I have to defend myself from organisations like yours and Crikey.  We may be the only ones who sniggered but  did seem a rather strange name to give to a podcast for children about ethics. Produced by ABC Radio for kids to listen to with their parents, the podcast raises issues like  should we ban lollies?  Because  short and curly  always meant just one thing to us we asked the ABC about the origin of the name. Ian Walker   the executive producer of audio, campaigns and collaborations, radio content and digital (actual title)   gave us the following explanation:  The Short and Curly of the title relates to the kind of questions the show asks; questions that make your brain hurt and ethical conundrums for kids. The show is aimed at children aged seven to 12 for listening with their parents. The kids we ve been working with say they find the name catchy and cute and we have not been aware of any complaints or problems with it. Parents so far have thanked us effusively for making a podcast that the whole family can listen to. It was back in July when TV presenter Sonia Kruger , saying she agreed with the US presidential candidate Donald Trump s stance on immigration.  So we were more than a little surprised when Cosmopolitan magazine nominated her for woman of the year. In the magazine s September issue there is a glamorous shot of Kruger and no mention of her immigration remarks.  The fabulous 50-year-old brings style   and often a sensible opinion to the talent show,  Cosmo said. Is that an endorsement of her views, we wondered.  She s also the arch-commentator to her co-star David Campbell on Today Extra and despite being mum to 18-month-old Maggie she somehow manages to appear bright and bushy-tailed no matter what time of day she s on our screens,  Cosmo said. But far from endorsing Kruger the Bauer-owned magazine was quick to distance itself from her views.  Cosmopolitan would like to make it clear  in the  fun fearless female women of the year awards  was made for the September issue of the magazine and before her comments on immigration and other issues were made. The political, professional or personal views of any nominee are in no way endorsed or supported by Cosmopolitan. This applies to remarks made by Ms Kruger. Our readers will decide which of these nominees deserves to win.  Incredibly the decision on nominees for the September issue was made before Kruger made her remarks back in July. That is one hell of a lead time for a magazine that hit the news stands in October.  The prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, launched Chris Mitchell s book on Friday with what he called . The PM did, however, characterise the former editor-in-chief of the Australian as a  tough guy  who has a  very big heart . While there were many references to Rupert Murdoch   simply  Rupert    at the launch, Mitchell s relationship with News Corp may not be all that rosy . The generous print ads promoting Mitchell s book stopped appearing in the Australian last week, which may reflect the company s displeasure with some of the stories in the book   in particular that Lachlan Murdoch was rightwing and . And then there was that very pointed memo issued by News Corp Australia boss Michael Miller about the values of  trust and confidences .  We know, and respect, that private conversations and confidences will remain just that   private and confidential,  Miller reminded editors in an internal note. Miller also highlighted News  own code of conduct for journalists, which says a promise of confidentiality to a source must be honoured.  Our greatest asset is our reputation and we should be mindful in our dealings each day of how we can burnish that reputation,  he said.