Fusion or fission, nuclear power is not the only reliable alternative to fossil fuel (  News). Sunshine, wind and waves vary with the weather, but tides still rise and fall and the flow can be safely harnessed in and out.With nuclear fission not yet in sight, this simpler seapower could be a better bet than a rejigged evolutionary power reactor at Hinkley Point C. In his autumn statement last year, George Osborne flagged up the prospect of a tidal lagoon power project in Swansea Bay, only to put it out for review when the price of oil and gas came down.The start-up cost for Swansea Bay stands at  1.3bn as against  18bn for Hinkley Point. The planned productive life of a lagoon is more than 100 years compared with 60 years for Hinkley Point C. Over the years, with rising output from larger lagoons around the coast, tidal input to the national grid could match Hinkley nuclear in cost and quantity.The modest Swansea Bay venture is set to pilot a fleet of bigger enclosures with two-way turbine arrays to harness an exceptional tidal range, extending from Welsh and British coasts across the Channel to France. The technology of lagoon-wall dykes and low-speed turbines is relatively simple. Lagoons carry no heavy overhang of radioactive waste and decommissioning. They are most unlikely to blow up and in case of major breakdown the damage would not be insupportable.A government decision on funding for Swansea Bay now awaits the outcome of an independent review later this year. With luck and common sense, this could be ready in time for Philip Hammond to give the go-ahead for this first tidal lagoon in his first autumn statement, opening the way to a wider list of private investment and jobs along a supply chain in waiting.Better a Swansea sprat to catch an eco-friendly mackerel than a dubious go-for-broke upstream in Somerset. With Swansea Bay as my backyard, I would say that, wouldn t I? Though it doesn t have to be either/or.SwanseaGeorge Osborne s reckless enthusiasm for Chinese investment is now coming home to roost, as the flaws in vanity projects such as Hinkley Point become overwhelmingly obvious ( ,  News). HS2 is just as flawed and, at  57bn, thrice as costly, with no valid case for it in terms of business, environment or capacity. Whether the money comes from China or is borrowed at low rates, shouldn t the  57bn be put into HS3 instead, for which there is an excellent business and environmental case?London NW3Your  says:  But renewables cannot provide the stable excess capacity needed to deal with short-term surges in demand.  But surely that is exactly what hydroelectric power can do very quickly. Pumped storage systems such as exist in Wales and Scotland, and tidal lagoons such as are proposed in the Severn Estuary, provide turn-of-the-tap electricity. We just need to get on with building them.CholesburyBuckinghamshireYou say that Hinkley Point and other new nuclear technologies have severe problems. But why does the technology have to be new? Why not a cost-effective, safe Sizewell D? Do we worry that bicycle wheels are still round?London, SE24