f you are worried about climate change, it has never been easier to move your money away from companies connected to fossil fuels, with plenty of carbon-free banking and investment options available. So says the editor of , which describes itself as the UK s leading alternative consumer magazine, and which has this month published a personal finance guide to carbon divestment that recommends a number of best-buy products in banking, savings, mortgages and investment.Tim Hunt says the global carbon divestment campaign has been incredibly successful in getting a wide range of institutions to dump billions of pounds of shares in carbon-intensive industries. And it s not just the likes of universities, pension funds and charitable foundations   many individuals have followed suit or are considering doing so.Among those who have thrown their weight behind the campaign is the actor Leonardo DiCaprio, who has said that   to let our world leaders know that we, as individuals and institutions, are taking action to address climate change, and we expect them to do their part .But are there really fossil-free alternatives for those looking to move their money? The answer is yes   but it may mean signing up with a small and/or niche player. Not all their products will be suitable for everyone, and you won t get rich with some of the interest rates on offer.Divestment is basically the opposite of investment   it is the removal of your investment capital from shares/bonds/funds etc. In this case it s all about encouraging institutions and individuals to move their money out of oil, gas and coal companies. As of May 2016 the global campaign had resulted in more than $3tn ( 2.25tn) having been divested from the fossil fuel industry by hundreds of institutions around the world. The Guardian has been running its own campaign called .Most people in Britain do not directly own shares, but almost all of us have bank accounts, and if yours is with one of the big five   Lloyds, Barclays, HSBC, RBS/NatWest or Santander   campaigners say you are helping to support the tens of billions of pounds they have lent to companies around the world engaged in oil, gas and coal extraction. An analysis of Europe s 20 largest banks in 2014 found that Barclays had the biggest volume of  high carbon  loans, as a proportion of its total lending, of any of the banks, while Lloyds had the largest amount invested in high-carbon equities.Switching your current account is now (usually) pain free, and if this is an area where you feel strongly enough to make a move, Ethical Consumer has surveyed the market and is suggesting some best buys. It says that  for a high street bank with a positive stance in favour of renewables and against fossil fuels, we recommend the  and their online bank,  . It adds that the  and  building societies also offer  excellent  current accounts and, as mutuals, avoid investing people s money in the most controversial business areas.The Co-op Bank is running a promotion whereby it is giving  150 to people who move to its no-monthly-fee current account, provided they use the industry s switching service (which involves the closure of your old account) and move over at least four active direct debits.On the savings front, three names come out on top: ,  and . With the Ecology, your savings cash will help to support sustainable development across the UK. Its accounts include an easy access one, which pays a variable 1%, and a regular saver, which pays a variable 1.75%. Both can be opened with a minimum of  25, while the latter has a maximum investment of  3,000 per calendar year. These are postal accounts, though there is an online facility called Interactive.Charity Bank is owned by charitable foundations, trusts and social purpose organisations, and its best-paying offering is the Small Steps account for under-16s, which can be opened with just  10 and currently pays 2%. You can add to your child s savings at any time or set up a direct debit, and, according to the bank, their money will be used to support charities and social enterprises while earning a fair return. However, this is a fixed-term account   you can choose from one, three or five years   so you will only have access to the money when the account matures.Charity Bank s other accounts include a savings account paying 0.5%, 0.6% or 0.7% depending on the notice period you agree to   33, 93 or 365 days respectively; the community account, which pays 0.7% over one year or 1% over three years; and the ethical Isa, which has a 33-day notice period and pays 1% on a minimum deposit of  250. The first two of these three pay higher rates on balances in excess of  25,000. However, be aware that all the accounts are operated by post.Triodos Bank says it only lends to, and invests in,  organisations that benefit people and [the] environment . It has a range of savings accounts including the ethical junior cash Isa which pays 2% (2.01% AER); the five-year ethical savings bond paying a fixed 1.75%; and the easy-access online saver plus paying 1%.When it comes to mortgages, Ethical Consumer says the clear best buy is the Ecology building society.  It tops the table and only invests in lower-impact buildings and projects. Because of this, their mortgages may not be appropriate for everyone.  The , , , ,  and  building societies all score well, too, though a good, more widely available option is the Nationwide.The top-scoring ethical investment fund was the , a  104m fund launched in 2009 that  invests exclusively in companies providing solutions to sustainability challenges .A number of community energy projects have been launched in recent months, ranging from solar schemes to wind turbines.Jon Halle, the director of Sharenergy   a not-for-profit organisation which helps communities find, build and own renewable energy schemes   says the Brexit vote  showed that huge numbers of people are unhappy with established structures . He adds:  Supporting and joining community energy co-operatives is a genuinely democratic way to harness some of that anti-authoritarianism for good. Projects currently being promoted by Sharenergy include the Small Wind Co-op, which is looking to raise funds for three medium-scale wind turbines on two farms in Scotland and Wales. People can invest a minimum of  100 and will get a  fair  return on their investment: from 4.5% to 6.5% depending on whether they choose to invest in its bonds or shares. It intends to sell all its electricity to Co-operative .Another venture being promoted on the site is Oldham Community Power, which is aiming to raise  658,900 to install solar panels on council-owned and community buildings. People can subscribe to its share offer for as little as  100, and the anticipated rate of return for members is 4%.