estern democracy just awoke to its worst ever bad hair,  Paul Mason told the Meaning conference in Brighton recently. The writer and broadcaster was, of course, referring to the election of Donald Trump as US president. Indeed, much of the event that brought together academics, business leaders, social activists and artists to discuss issues such as the future of work and ethical business was overshadowed by the spectre of .Mason, who last year published a book entitled Post-Capitalism, said recent political events were a reaction to a  and the  decline of neo-liberalism . In particular, he said the IT revolution had  changed the game  for economics, reduced the cost of goods and services to close to zero, wiped out millions of well-paid jobs and replaced them with low-wage roles.  If you thought your kids were going to get high value jobs, you re wrong. We have graduates serving coffee. Remember when a car wash meant a machine? Now it s five guys with rags as they can undercut the cost of a machine,  said Mason.But what should be done to counter this dystopian vision? Mason argued for a post-capitalist society founded on government intervention, guaranteed basic incomes, open source software and an attack of the  rent seekers    major companies who aim to  sit on top  of technology and exploit their advantage. But others had alternative views.Also speaking at the conference was Juliet Davenport, founder and CEO of renewable power company Good . Prior to setting up her company, she worked at the European Commission, but said she believed it was easier to achieve change through business than it was via politics.  The role of entrepreneurs and businesses is to figure out what comes next. It s difficult to do that in politics but, as a business, you have much more freedom,  she said.Davenport suggested that entrepreneurs must aim to create new kinds of companies that benefit society more broadly, rather than simply obtaining profit for shareholders.  We need the key stakeholders in our society to also be the stakeholders in our companies. We should talk about ownership, because where money and investment comes from dictates what a company ends up doing   all money is not equal. But if you get that balance in the money you are going to get much more balance coming out of companies. Davenport said that if she did things again, she would structure her company differently from the outset. She also said she would like to see the emergence of a hybrid model, one that combined some of the freedoms of a PLC or Ltd company with the responsibilities of a mutual or co-operative.  When you are running a company you are trying to balance the interests of the money and shareholders, the customers and the staff,  she said.  But the shareholder part has taken over and we ve forgotten the customer and employee part.  Good Energy is now a listed business with more than 300 staff and owns a number of renewable energy assets. However, she said that in the early days of Good Energy, it was difficult for her to make headway.  Everything was set up to maintain the status quo of a few big companies producing energy at huge power stations using fossil fuels,  she said.  Initially, when I tried to get a licence to sell energy, I was told by the regulator I needed three years of published accounts. When you try to break into a new market you find it s hard at every single stage. Davenport said she managed to break through by reaching out to her customers. She worked with people and businesses involved in micro-generation, tidal lagoon projects and wind farms, and slowly built a business.  We worked with people who had been cut off by the big six because they were doing micro and home generation,  she said.  We were far ahead of the government when it came to backing small power generators and tidal lagoon. Davenport said she believed that reaching out to customers had been made far easier with the advent of crowdfunding and that that was a great advantage to companies with innovative business models.  Today, the crowdfunding model gives you huge freedom that lets you loose from the traditional city funding or government innovation funding. Then you can start playing with new business models and new ideas. Indeed, for many, the digital revolution was meant to help create a more equal and democratic society, one that levelled the playing field for businesses. James Johnston, founder and CEO of Open Utility, launched his business with this type of approach. It has created a platform that enables businesses to understand where their energy comes from. Users are presented with a map of renewable generators across the UK and are allowed to select their preferred supplier. Johnston said this had immediate implications for a company s corporate social responsibility offering but believed his company was part of a drive to create a new kind of energy system. We are a mission-driven company,  he said.  The UK has a centralised energy system, where everything is set up to enable the creation of big power stations. But we see a movement toward a decentralised system. We want to use the principles behind the internet   decentralisation, democratisation and a levelling of the playing field   to create a new system through digital technology.The business is now partnering with Good Energy and also has an international deal in the pipeline. However, Johnston said that when he and his co-founders initially began to talk to energy providers, he was dismissed.  Everybody we met sent us packing. One even offered to send us on a course to show us how the electricity worked,  he said.However, the company was able to gain grant funding from the Department of Energy and Climate Change and Nominet, and is now in business.  Getting the government backing meant it was easier to get the regulator to start talking to us,  said Johnston.  Once people can see where their power comes from, it changes their attitude towards energy production. We met one guy who opposed wind farms but, once he understood how it affected him, he became a convert.  