Environmentalists have criticised the offshore oil regulator for appointing a recent head of the Australian arm of a major oil company to a senior position, saying the move is  like putting the fox in charge of the henhouse .Derrick O Keeffe spent the past four years as country manager in Australia for Murphy Oil, which under his watch entered into a joint-venture with Santos to .This week the National offshore petroleum safety and environmental management authority (Nopsema)  to the position of Head of Division, Safety and Integrity, which .The role includes the assessment of safety cases and well operations management plans, such as those that Nopsema  for BP to drill for oil in the Great Australian Bight.O Keeffe s LinkedIn profile boasts of expanding Murphy Oil s number of offshore oil permits from three to 10.Murphy  has had its environmental plans approved by Nopsema to explore for oil in the Great Australian Bight, and is expected to submit drilling safety cases and well operation management plans to Nopsema in the near future, which would now be assessed by O Keeffe. When the company he worked for has an active permit, putting an oil advocate in charge of regulating oil spill risk is like putting the fox in charge of the henhouse,  said Greenpeace campaigner Jonathan Moylan. The revolving door syndrome that tarnishes Australian fossil fuel politics has undermined public trust and continues to hold back energy and environment policy,  said Moylan.  It is disturbing that the person responsible for safety and integrity of offshore drilling has a career primarily focussed on increasing oil production, rather than process safety. Nopsema  by Greenpeace for BP s well operation management plan, which Nopsema approved, for its now-abandoned plans to drill for oil in the Great Australian Bight.One of the reasons Nopsema gave was that the documents might be used by groups opposed to the drilling activity. Nopsema has already shown it is willing to put oil companies  business interests before the public interest, and this move will cement that reputation,  Moylan said. After the controversy over the lack of transparency surrounding BP s failed Great Australian Bight approval process, you d expect Nopsema to make an effort to win back public confidence. Instead they appear to be digging a deeper hole,  said Moylan.O Keeffe also headed an , simulating a spill similar to that seen in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010.A spokeswoman for Nopsema said:  Mr O Keefe has actively advocated for enhancements to the industry, primarily to the health, safety and environment field. Mr O Keeffe s extensive Australian and international experience in the offshore oil and gas industry, throughout the last three decades, ensures he has a well-developed appreciation of the challenging environment in which the offshore workforce operates, and the well integrity matters that must be addressed by industry. Mr O Keeffe possesses a comprehensive understanding of Australia s objective-based regulatory regime, having worked for a diverse range of oil and gas companies in Australia. These include Murphy Oil (country manager), Strike  (chief operating officer), and Woodside (business manager). A recent example of Mr O Keeffe s expertise in this field was his success rolling out global safety standards at Murphy Oil. O Keeffe declined to comment, referring inquiries to Nopsema.