Energy conservation and renewables are the only possible solution to the world s energy problems and the need to move as fast as possible to a low-carbon economy (, 29 July). Sadly, the UK has been rowing in the opposite direction by rigging the market in favour of shale gas. We can only hope that George Osborne s irrational hostility towards renewables will now be abandoned by the new  green team  of Greg Clark, Jo Johnson and Nick Hurd at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). As a matter of urgency, they need to scrap HS2 and use the money on a European supergrid in order to iron out fluctuations from different sources of renewable energy. We need not only a new green deal, but huge investment in local microgeneration projects. And, if the government insists on going down the nuclear route, it should develop small modular reactors and locate them on ships not land, as shipping contributes 4.5% of carbon emissions world-wide and this is set to increase 30% by 2020. Greg Clark s decision to review the Hinkley project looks sensible, since it has become abundantly clear there are many alternatives to produce reliable low-carbon electricity cheaper and earlier. Until its demise, the Department of  and Climate Change (Decc) ignored reports showing that solar, wind, storage and backup gas can produce the same output as Hinkley Point a decade earlier and at least 25% cheaper, saving consumers  720m a year for 35 years. Decc repeated its (factually wrong) mantra that only nuclear can provide reliable low-carbon electricity power. Waxing lyrical about jobs created falls flat when you realise that only 900 new permanent jobs will be created, each at a cost to consumers of  800,000 per year.We must hope that BEIS looks at the facts and does not commit to overspending hundreds of millions a year for 35 years while risking that the lights go out if Hinkley Point does not produce electricity before the last coal plant will have shut by 2025. If BEIS continues Decc s track record of fact-free decision making, this surely invites a judicial review. EDF said before the referendum that a Brexit vote would not affect its plans to build Hinkley C. The value of the pound has fallen since then and as they are contracted to build the station for a fixed price in pounds, then obviously the pensions of the French workers and profit for EDF owners will be diminished with that lower value. Why are they still keen on the deal? Was it 12% overpriced before that devaluation? The plant is now predicted to cost  24bn and will power 6m homes, providing electricity for 30 years at an extortionate fixed price. For the same price we could put solar hot water and PV with battery storage on the same 6m homes and thus taking a quarter of British homes out of fuel poverty for ever.We already have over a million solar roofs in Britain on the homes of people who want to decouple their futures from the greed of energy utilities. Tens of millions have been invested in UK solar energy research and already  2.5bn has been invested in moving some dirt and laying some concrete at Hinkley Point. Who paid for that? Not the French or Chinese. This nuclear gamble is madness and the fundamental question that needs answering is why? Thirty or so years ago I led an internal study for a leading consultancy firm on the viability of a Severn barrage generating tidal electricity. We were able to show that, at the time, it could supply 10% of the country s electrical needs. With improvements in generating equipment and a site further downstream, it must be possible to generate at least as much as the proposed Hinkley Point nuclear power station. It would be quicker to build, use proven technology, be safer now and in the future, would generate no radioactive waste and very likely be much cheaper. How does the nuclear lobby do it? If Rolls-Royce can build the pressurised water reactors for our nuclear submarines, why can t they be engaged to build civil reactors for the UK? It is beyond the pale that the country that built the world s first nuclear power station at Calder Hall, Cumbria, in 1956 now lacks the skills, investment and self-belief to build anything. I ve always thought that if we had factories full of people making the goods that people and countries wanted, then we wouldn t have the divided, angry nation we have now.  is intended to satisfy 7% of our electrical needs. Is it not possible instead to reduce those needs by the same amount? For example, I am constantly seeing the lights on in shops, offices and other public places unnecessarily.