Eight long years in the making: the plans to build Hinkley Point C have been beset by delays and difficulties. In recent months, the government has pressed French company EDF for a decision to proceed, while EDF has . But last Thursday, the tables turned dramatically: EDF finally signalled its go-ahead, then just hours later, the government announced it would delay its final decision on the project.The delay was not without risks. It has certainly ruffled diplomatic feathers, given China s significant stake in the project. And it will create yet more uncertainty in an energy industry in which certainty is critical to fostering long-term investment. But it was the right decision, in light of serious concerns about whether the project represents value for money and the security risks of depending on Chinese investment for a project so critical to long-term national security.Yet the decisions that lie ahead will be even more difficult. Will the government kick the Hinkley decision into the long grass, as it has done with other difficult infrastructure decisions, such as additional airport capacity? Or will it use the coming months to reconsider how nuclear power fits into a long-term energy strategy?  policy has long been in a mess. Britain faces the same conundrum as every other country: how to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels to meet climate change targets, while ensuring both energy security and affordability against a backdrop of increasing demand for electricity over the next two decades.There are no magic bullets. The only way to achieve this is through a long-term strategy, but this has been utterly lacking. Renewables have a critical role to play, yet David Cameron s government created huge uncertainty by phasing out many subsidies at short notice. But renewables cannot provide the stable excess capacity needed to deal with short-term surges in demand.Carbon capture and storage is also important, although, again, Cameron pledged to invest  1bn in it, only to  for the scheme a few months ago. And investment in domestic and industrial energy efficiency is needed to help reduce demand, but the government has also underinvested here.But these will not together be enough: without new investment in nuclear energy, it is unlikely that Britain will meet its decarbonisation targets. While nuclear has a bad reputation, the safety risks of newer technologies are often overblown and, as environmentalists such as George Monbiot have argued, . No nuclear power stations have been built in Britain since the 1990s and half of our current nuclear capacity will be retired by 2025.It is true that there appear to be serious issues with the type of nuclear reactor planned for Hinkley   projects in France and Finland have been beset by delays and spiralling costs   but other new nuclear technologies are even less developed than the Hinkley reactor. While , they would also require upfront state subsidy. There is no cheap or easy option when it comes to nuclear.Yet it is clear that Hinkley, as currently conceived, represents a terrible deal for taxpayers. Because nuclear power has such significant upfront costs, it will always require some form of state subsidy. By far the most efficient way is for the government to issue nuclear bonds, taking advantage of cheap borrowing costs.But the government s illogical aversion to borrowing means it is subsidising Hinkley by guaranteeing the price paid for the electricity it produces over 35 years. The price has already been set; in 2013, the total value of this subsidy was estimated to be  6bn. Today, in the wake of falling wholesale energy prices, this has ballooned to  30bn. And by relying on Chinese state investment rather than UK government borrowing, it opens the project up to serious security concerns.This saga crystallises many of the failings of British industrial policy over the last 30 years. The lack of a long-term strategy is replicated across other strategic sectors of the economy, from biotech to advanced manufacturing. Unlike our competitors, the government has not proved adept at identifying and nurturing sectors in which we have emerging comparative advantage   not by picking winners, but through policies that enable the top companies in these sectors to flourish.It is also a reminder of the government s terrible track record of structuring public-private partnerships that represent good value for money for taxpayers. Too often, negotiations are driven by the government s desire to keep investment off the balance sheet.Theresa May has signalled a new approach to industrial policy, which is to be welcomed. But if it is to have a hope of succeeding, she must apply the lessons of Hinkley to the whole of British industrial policy.