EDF s decision to invest in the  18bn Hinkley Point should be declared invalid, French trade unions have said, as pressure builds against the troubled nuclear power plant project.A trio of unions at the French firm said senior board members knew that the UK government was , but nothing was said before last month s vote on whether EDF should back the project. Jean-Bernard L vy, the chairman and chief executive of EDF,  in which he admitted knowing about the probable delay before the board met to approve building and co-funding the first British nuclear power plant in a generation. Theresa May quashed hopes that Hinkley would finally go ahead at last when it was announced . The announcement came just hours before a signing ceremony was scheduled to take place at the site in Somerset, south-west England.The prime minister is thought to have ordered a  owing to , which has a one-third stake in the Hinkley project. said they believed some EDF board members knew the delay was probable, meaning the board s approval   by 10 votes to seven   should be overturned. Our three unions denounce this information asymmetry,  said the CGT, CFE-CGC and FO in a joint statement.  They therefore consider that the board s Hinkley Point decision, taken on the basis of incomplete information, is null and void. The three unions said the UK government s supposed desire for a swift resolution had been cited by EDF s leadership as a key reason to vote in favour of the project. The moderate CFDT union, which also represents EDF employees, did not sign the statement. In his letter to fellow EDF executives L vy said he believed May only wanted  a few more days  to consider the Hinkley contract amid criticism over the cost to taxpayers. EDF said this week:  Reading the entire internal email sent on 2 August by the chairman and CEO of EDF to members of the executive committee confirms unambiguously that when the company s board of directors was held, EDF and its chairman had no knowledge of the intention of the British government to conduct a further review of the . All that was known before the press statement issued by the British government on 28 July was that the signing ceremony originally proposed for Friday 29 July would be postponed. This potential date of signature had not been confirmed, and therefore had not been communicated either to the board nor the market. There was therefore no requirement to communicate its postponement. EDF added that L vy planned to sue the Sud Energie union, after it claimed that he lied when he told journalists he did not know the British government was planning to delay the project.The CGT, CFE-CGC and FO unions said not enough consideration was given to whether EDF board members were subject to a conflict of interest, because some are employed by companies that stand to benefit from Hinkley. Who can say that with a rigorous management of the conflicts of interest and real transparency of information, the board decision would not have been different,  the unions said.Peter Atherton, an associate at Cornwall  consultants, said:  It would seem that communication between the two parties [the UK government and EDF] wasn t the best. He added that the cost of underwriting the project for UK taxpayers was excessive, after the government agreed a guaranteed price for electricity produced by Hinkley.  My position is that the economics of Hinkley are very hard to justify. The question is whether there are other benefits, such as the relationship with the French and Chinese and the industrial development you get from that, as well as economic benefits to the south-west. Critics of Hinkley have argued that it is  because the government is offering EDF   which is 85%-owned by the French state   a price of  92.50 per megawatt hour to provide up to 7% of the UK s energy needs.Atherton said:  The political will in the UK may have diminished now that George Osborne isn t involved. The issue is whether the whole thing is being called into question. Oliver Salvesen, equity analyst at stockbroker Jefferies, said there was still enough support for Hinkley within EDF for the project to go ahead, assuming the UK government chooses to support it. It is surprising that the company can t marry these two factions together. It s a function of the fact that EDF has been very financially stressed because of poor market conditions,  he said. The unions are very powerful and they ll want to know that the company isn t taking on unnecessary risk with an investment that could impact the French business and of course, the workforce. But this is a long-term project that they want to be involved with and will give very decent returns. The UK government is conducting a review of the Hinkley Pointcontract, but it has not made public its scope of the review. May is thought to have been keen to examine more closely the  in the project amid concerns about the impact on national security and despite her predecessor .