e, the Munduruku people, send our thoughts and words to you who live far away. We echo the cry for help from our mother, the forest, and from all the indigenous peoples in .Our home of Munduruk nia and all 13,000 of our people are threatened by the Brazilian government s plans to build more than .This would destroy the rapids of the Tapaj s river that have long protected us from the  (white people). Construction of the S o Luiz, Jatob  and Chacor o dams would also flood our territory and erase the history written in the land.Such a  tributary, where the government and companies blew up our sacred waterfall, . This left the spirits of our dead without a resting place. What would you say if we destroyed your graveyards, or the Vatican or Jerusalem?The mining of gold, minerals and precious stones also carries the suffering of our people to distant lands. Diamond extraction in Sawr  Muybu threatens another of our most sacred sites, called Os Fechos (Dajekapap), which we see as our origin and the site of the footprint of our god Karosakaybu. Loggers are entering our lands and destroying our  (abandoned villages that are archaeological sites). This is why at the beginning of April, alongside riverine communities, our warriors  that would have advanced plans for timber extraction. We will not accept logging projects in our lands. Some of the places are said by the government to lie outside our lands. But we have occupied these places, along with the riverine communities, for many generations.We have our own ways of learning and taking care of the forest. We have been doing this for more than 500 years. Yet we must still remind the white people of their own laws. Brazil s 1988 constitution has . Brazil also signed the  and the UN declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. Are these dead words?We demand these laws be respected. On the Teles Pires river, we were never consulted about the hydroelectric dams the Brazilian government has already built, or about the others it is constructing with the . We have never been asked about the terminals built in front of our villages by agribusiness companies, disturbing our peace and driving the fish away. These terminals export beans from the soy farms that have devastated the land of indigenous people and traditional communities in  state. In the spirit of our god Karosakaybu and our greatest warrior Karodaybi, we are defending our land. We  our territory after the government failed to fulfil its duty. We have drawn up a  to explain to white people how to talk to Munduruku with respect. We demand these be recognised.This week some of our men and women are in Bras lia, where they are rallying alongside indigenous people from across the country at the Terra Livre (Free Earth) camp. Two of our great leaders have also travelled to the , where they will meet and share ideas and experiences with our indigenous relatives from many continents. We denounce the Brazilian government. It is a government of death. It should be protecting our lands and our lives to build a better future for all. But instead, it refuses to accept that part of our territory   Sawr  Muybu indigenous land   belongs to the Munduruku. This endangers our lives, our ancestors, our sacred places, our villages and our sources of food. The government is weakening Funai (the Indian affairs agency) and Sesai (the Indian health service). Politicians are drawing up  to stop the demarcation of indigenous land and . Instead, they will put the territory into the hands of businessmen and looters   miners, loggers and landgrabbers, who intimidate and threaten us.We ask for the support of people and organisations to help us build a better world. We call on international society to stop consuming Brazilian agricultural products, timber, diamonds, gold and anything else that comes from the plundering of our land and the spilling of our blood. China, Europe, the US, Australia, Canada and others must stop contributing money and machinery that helps the Brazilian government and companies as they try to crush our bodies, our spirits and all forms of life that exist in Amazonia. The great smoke of  (the evil spirit) is coming deeper into our lands. Ultimately, it will bring everything to an end   even the  (white people) who brought it. But we indigenous people are strong. Despite all efforts to exterminate us, we have been preparing for many generations to defend our lands and our people, and we will resist to the last Munduruku.