Donald Trump has consistently expressed  that global warming is a hoax.Trump is also the presumptive Republican Party nominee for president in 2016, and were he elected, would be the leader of the country with the second-highest net carbon pollution in the world. These are frightening thoughts.However, , Trump acknowledges the reality and threats posed by human-caused global warming when it comes to protecting his own assets, and in keeping with :The permit was filed by an Irish environmental consulting company, so it s possible that Trump himself denies these scientific realities. However, the consultants are indisputably correct about the threat that global warming and sea level rise pose to this golf course, .Trump s public comments on climate change may reflect a political calculation that the  who comprise his voter base also form . Or perhaps Trump is indeed in denial about the science himself, but those who protect his assets, such as this Irish environmental consulting firm, are not.Trump also has the wealth necessary to blunt some of the impacts of climate change, for example by building sea walls, whereas poorer countries, , do not possess these resources. These poorer countries also contribute the least to the problem, whereas Trump opposes  technologies like solar and wind power that are critical for wealthy countries to reduce their much higher carbon pollution. In fact,  along the coasts of Scotland and Ireland. Yet despite his misinformed objections that wind energy is too costly, .The next president of the United States will be tasked with ensuring the country meets its pledge to cut carbon pollution, made during the recent . Trump has , which  if true. However, a clause in the agreement forces signatory nations to wait at least four years before withdrawing, and . Trump s threats may simply be bluster, since he s running as the candidate who will make good deals for America, and the Paris climate accords are a  deal  (as Joe Romm put it, ) that he can exploit for political gain.Or perhaps Donald Trump believes everything that comes out of his mouth. Social psychologist David Dunning posits that :Indeed, when it comes to climate change, social science research has shown that American conservatives who express . They re confident in their denial precisely because they don t know enough to realize how uninformed they are about climate science. This is . As : appears to be helping Trump make misinformed, conspiratorial comments about climate change without repercussions in the polls.Trump is now the  leader of one of America s two dominant political parties. The other is Hillary Clinton, who understands the threats posed by human-caused global warming and has  to address them. She , a , as her campaign chairman. 350.org co-founder .In November, Americans will face a stark contrast between their choices for the nation s next president. One option is Donald Trump, who at best is confident in his complete ignorance about climate change, and at worst is selling out the welfare of future generations for personal gain while protecting his own assets. The other option is , who for whatever her flaws, acknowledges the reality and threats posed by climate change and has a plan to tackle them.One of these candidates will soon lead one of the world s most powerful and largest-polluting countries, just as  to avoid the worst consequences of climate change. This is a choice Americans have to get right.