Central heating systems are being turned off across the country as spring takes hold, but winter is coming for energy companies who have recently hiked bills for millions of households.Theresa May  after a flurry of price rises by the big six companies   British Gas, e.on, EDF, npower, ScottishPower, and SSE   and dozens of smaller suppliers.A government crackdown is expected as soon as next Monday, most likely in the form of a price cap on the standard variable tariffs affecting nearly two-thirds of households.While the heads of companies including  and EDF talk in public about understanding ministers  concerns and  engaging constructively  with any government regulation, privately there is frustration within the industry at the prospect of further intervention.The competition watchdog last summer , ruling out a cap in favour of measures to encourage more switching. This year, it was expected that those remedies would begin to come into effect, removing some of the inertia that makes people on standard tariffs pay more than  300 a year more to heat and light their homes than those on the cheapest fixed deals. But steep hikes in dual fuel bills by the big six, who control more than 80% of the market, have prompted calls for action by consumer groups and MPs. All but Centrica-owned British Gas have upped their prices, with EDF last week . The suppliers have blamed a series of factors, from smart meter installation costs and green energy policies to, most frequently, rising wholesale energy costs.But the energy regulator  that while wholesale costs had gone up, they were not large enough to warrant passing on to consumers. Dermot Nolan, Ofgem s chief executive, said EDF s second increase was  difficult to justify  because there had not been a dramatic increase in costs since the French-owned company s last rise.One smaller supplier told the Guardian that its cost of buying energy had fallen this year.The prime minister has signalled since last autumn that she is preparing to go further than the competition watchdog s recommendations and take a more interventionist stance than former prime minister David Cameron. The energy secretary, Greg Clark, who will be  on what action he is going to take, has repeatedly warned companies that . to say that plans would be unveiled soon, because  relying on switching alone to keep prices down is clearly not working . The speech had echoes of the former Labour leader . But prices then entered a two-year decline   and he did not have May s ally, the Daily Mail editor, , onside.The Mail s front page response to Miliband s proposal was headlined  back to the bad old days  and said  Britain could be plunged into darkness by Labour s 1970s-style plan to freeze power bills . When EDF hiked dual fuel bills by 7.2% last week and government officials promised action, the Mail gave its tacit approval with a frontpage headline of  crackdown on energy rip-offs .The timing of the EDF announcement, days before an anticipated intervention, may show that the big suppliers are content with the prospect of a price cap, according to an energy industry source.  It s that timing   if you were scared of government intervention, you wouldn t do that. It feels like a goading move,  said the source. While a cap would dent the big companies  profit margins per customer, they would still have certainty on their return. For example, the UK s biggest energy company, British Gas, made  52 profit per dual fuel customer in 2016, compared to  61 in 2015.What is not clear yet is what form the government s intervention will take. Four of the new breed of challenger companies have backed the Conservative MP John Penrose s call for a relative price cap, which would see the most expensive deals from a supplier pegged at no more than 6% above the cheapest tariff it offers. But officials are thought to have cooled on the idea and an absolute price cap on standard tariffs is thought more likely.Any such ceiling will be above , usually used by more vulnerable customers. For those 4m people, their dual fuel bills have been limited since 1 April to about  1,060 (the exact amount varies by region). By comparison, 1.5m EDF customers on standard tariffs will be paying  1,160 for their gas and electricity from late June.The bosses of  and  have claimed caps could kill competition and hurt consumer choice. But , switching figures now are much the same as they were when price caps last existed, 15 years ago. Standard variable tariffs could be capped at a level that still allows them to be profitable for suppliers, but that is fairer on loyal customers,  said Richard Hall of the consumer group Citizen s Advice.