ccording to a  on the home page of the tourism giant Mantra Group, a  family holiday in Queensland would be incomplete without a visit to the beautiful Great Barrier Reef, the largest coral reef system in the world .Which raises the question, why isn t the Mantra Group   one of Australia s largest hotel and resort operators, with more than  including a string of resorts in north Queensland   vociferous in demanding action to save the reef?The question could not be more pertinent given the .Mantra and other huge hospitality companies with interests on the reef, including Marriott and , were conspicuously muted during the  of 2015-16. Nor have any of these companies spoken out strongly against the Carmichael coalmine proposal   despite the  that fossil-fuel expansion poses to the reef their businesses depend on.As the Queensland Tourism Industry Council boss, Daniel Gschwind, told :  It s hard to see how the further development or expansion of the coal industry can support or in any way contribute positively to the future of the reef   There is no denying that the further extraction and burning of fossil fuels is a negative for the reef. Port Douglas sits at the hinge of the central and northern sectors of the . Presumably a large number of those who choose to stay in resorts like the Mantra Aqueous   or the Accor-owned Sea Temple or the Marriott-owned Sheraton Mirage, both also in Port Douglas   have been drawn there by the promise of the reef.And while the vast majority of the reef experienced some damage, it is the  that experienced the worst. Last November a team of experts from James Cook University led by Prof Terry Hughes  of the corals in the reef s northern part had died. I snorkelled some of the impacted areas. I d seen plenty of images and vision but nothing really prepares you for the scale of the carnage when the algae-covered remains spread out beneath you, all around, in every direction, as far as your goggled eyes can see.Gschwind believes that most tour operators are not just on the reef  to make a buck  but rather  have a deep, almost spiritual, connection to the places they visit and take their visitors to  so  their interest is very much also in conservation . The 170 tourism operators who wrote an  to the prime minister last year opposing the Carmichael coalmine are no doubt in this category.But in the fight for the reef s future, the big end of the tourism street has gone missing. The likes of Mantra, Accor and Marriott profit from the astonishing beauty of the fish and the coral   but where is the much-vaunted corporate leadership when the Great Barrier Reef needs defenders? Mantra is a case in point. The company s public  on environment is short and generic, containing no concrete or measurable targets. Nor is there any clear recognition that the company has an advocacy role to play in demanding action to save the reef. Yet the Mantra Group s  is  to be the favourite by knowing what matters . The group acknowledges that its  stakeholders place us in a position of trust  and vows to  act with the integrity this trust reserves .If the Mantra Group   and the rest of big tourism   wants the trust of stakeholders, then it cannot be silent about the state and fate of the reef. It must speak out against the expansion of the coral-killing coal industry and demand decisive government action on global warming and other threats. One wonders what discussions are taking place at a board level about Mantra s commercial and reputational risks and responsibilities apropos the reef. How are the chief executive, Bob East, the chair, Peter Bush, and the  handling the question? We know that East in particular   who also chairs the    has a personal connection to the reef. East told  from Executive Style magazine that  his family loves the tropics during the Christmas season  and so they were off to  explore the Great Barrier Reef, Green Island and the world heritage-listed Daintree rainforest .What our reef needs is for big tourism to provide a determined business counterweight to the destructive agenda of the coalminers. Silence is complicity in the reef s destruction. 