British Gas is offering free daytime electricity for one day each weekend to more than 2 million customers in what the UK s biggest energy supplier says is the first deal of its kind.Customers with smart meters will pay nothing for electricity between 9am and 5pm on either Saturday or Sunday, and British Gas s standard rate at other times. British Gas has 2.4 million smart-meter users out of about 11 million residential customers.British Gas said the FreeTime tariff would be its cheapest dual-fuel deal and give customers more control over when and how they consume energy. The tariff, the first to offer smart-meter customers free electricity, will be fixed until March 2018 but analysts said there were cheaper deals on the market.Customers taking part in trials of the plan have reported changing their behaviour to save an average of  60 a year, British Gas said. Those customers moved some of their energy consumption to the free period, which made up 11% of the average customer s usage.Sarwjit Sambhi, British Gas s managing director of UK home, said:  FreeTime is an industry first and will give our customers greater control of their energy use. This will be the first of many smart-meter innovations from British Gas which will also contribute to managing the country s demand for power from the national grid. Tom Lyon, an energy specialist at , said the offer was an example of more innovative deals from suppliers since the energy regulator gave operators more flexibility on tariffs. But he said:  British Gas s HomeEnergy FreeTime deal is, on average,  250 a year more expensive than the cheapest deal on the market, so customers should always shop around.  allow customers to keep up with how much energy they use and track what it is costing them on a monitor. They do away with meter readings and are meant to give people an incentive to save energy and money.Stephen Murray, an energy expert at , said there were potential savings for customers who took up the deal but that shopping around to one of the best fixed-rate deals would probably save more money. He said:  The concept of free weekend electricity for customers with smart meters is a positive move by British Gas, but the smart meter rollout is still in its early stages, with functionality across suppliers still creating challenges. The 2.75m smart meters installed in British homes make up 5.8% of all domestic meters operated by large energy suppliers, government figures show . The big suppliers installed more than 540,000 meters in the first three months of this year. The government wants all of the UK s more than 26m homes to have a smart meter by 2020 and has required suppliers to offer one of the meters to all their customers. The push is part of the government s plan to upgrade Britain s ageing energy system and reduce energy use.