Britain s flagship energy project, , is hanging by a thread as critics inside key backer EDF use the political turmoil from the Brexit vote to try to derail Jean Bernard Levy, the EDF group chief executive, and the  insisted they are as committed as ever to a positive final investment decision being taken as soon as possible.But well-placed sources in Paris have told the Guardian that the already divided EDF board, which must make that decision, is in danger of fracturing further as former supporters of the project worry about Brexit. The situation for Levy was already very delicate,  said one source.  But it has become a lot more difficult because there is so little certainty around the British government,  they added.  No one could know today which way a vote [of the board on Hinkley] would go. Those arguing against the project say it is impossible to make any decisions when it is unclear who will be the future prime minister, chancellor of the exchequer and energy and climate change secretary.Highly critical EDF unions in , which have six representatives on the main board, are pressing waiverers among the five independent board members who have previously supported Levy to change their minds.Growing concern has led to four British trade unions urging EDF to press ahead with Hinkley. It was a first  litmus test  that major infrastructure projects will proceed as normal following the Brexit vote, they argued.The message was delivered by four British trade unions in a letter to Vincent de Rivaz, the chief executive of EDF s UK arm, ahead of a previous commitment to make the  final investment decision  by September. The UK trade unions are 100% in support of  and believe that it is vital to make a final investment decision in a timely fashion soon after the consultation process (between EDF and the French unions) is completed on 4 July,  says the letter signed by the four general secretaries: Len McCluskey (Unite); Brian Rye (Ucatt); Mike Clancy (Prospect) and Tim Roache (GMB).  Nuclear new build is already behind the curve; we cannot afford further delay and it is vital for EDF to make a final investment decision now,  it adds. The unions say the project, which is meant to generate 7% of UK s electricity, is vital for keeping the lights on and to create thousands of jobs in the years ahead. The reactor scheme is the first of its kind in more than 20 years but has already been beset by delays. EDF has put back the final investment decision due to its own internal problems mainly centering round mounting financial problems and dissent among its own unions and staff. The letter adds:  It would be a tragedy, in both France and the UK, if all this work and the extraordinary opportunities it provides were to be lost.  The moment to make the decision is upon us and we have a genuine fear that any further delay will lead to the unravelling of all that we have fought so hard to achieve. Unite national officer for energy, Kevin Coyne, said:  The final investment decision by  in Hinkley Point will be the first litmus test, following the Brexit vote, that much-needed investment in large infrastructure projects is still coming on stream.  Brian Rye, acting general secretary of Ucatt, said:  This is a vitally needed and ground-breaking project. The decision on the final go-ahead on Hinkley will demonstrate whether foreign-owned companies are still prepared to invest in the UK. The government needs to ensure that they get this deal over the line.  Justin Bowden, GMB national secretary, said:  The decision to get on and build Hinkley Point C must be made now, without further delay. The UK is already at growing risk of power shortages from our over-reliance on unpredictable renewables and our energy needs have not changed since last week. The prime minister s office said David Cameron and his French counterpart Francois Hollande reconfirmed their commitment to Hinkley when they met at first world war commemorations in Normandy. The Department of  and Climate Change (DECC) said keeping the lights on was  non-negotiable  and the government would ensure consumers had secure, affordable and clean energy now and in the future.A spokesperson added:  UK Government remains committed to Hinkley Point C. It s good for British people and will power around 6 million homes with reliable electricity for 60 years. 