Booming profits from British windfarms have more than made up for declining oil and gas revenues at , a state-owned Danish utility which says it is transforming itself from a high to low-carbon power producer.Dong, the biggest single investor in UK offshore wind projects, including the huge London Array windfarm off Kent, reported first-quarter profits of Kr 8bn ( 836m), a sum that was up 35% on the same period last year.Henrik Poulsen, Dong s chief executive, said the move from fossil fuels to renewable energy was gathering speed with no more spending planned for new oil projects not already begun.  The world will continue to need fossil fuels for a quite a time yet but the bigger trend is towards renewables and this is probably accelerating,  he said.  We see ourselves as a leader in offshore wind and bioenergy. Dong s profits from renewables were Kr3bn, with Kr2bn from oil and gas, plus Kr1bn from the electricity grid system it operates in , the company reported. Earnings from renewables, mainly offshore wind, had risen by more than 50% but the group profits were also bolstered by almost Kr2bn of disposals.The group, which is 76% owned by the Danish state, promised to be listed on the stock market in Copenhagen within 12 months. JP Morgan and other investment banks have been hired to sell the stock.Dong, which employs 900 staff in Britain, has installed 2.2GW of its 5.1GW offshore windfarm capacity. The company has just taken a final investment decision on the Hornsea 1 facility off the coast of Yorkshire, which will be the largest offshore windfarm in the world when it is completed in 2020 at a cost, some analysts believe, of up to  3bn.Poulsen said he was confident that his company could reach UK government goals of bringing down costs, to survive comfortably on 15-year contracts at  85 per MW-hour by the mid 2020s. That would make it significantly cheaper to obtain power from new offshore windfarms than from the controversial new nuclear power station, , for which subsidies of  92.50 for 35 years had been promised. I am sceptical of new nuclear,  said Poulsen.  The track record of new reactor projects in Finland and France is massive delays and budget overruns. The economics are doubtful and then there is the moral hazard of leaving nuclear waste for future generations. 