Australian businesses will need to place a higher priority on the environment and reducing inequality if Australia is to lift its ranking on global sustainable development goals (SDGs).Australia ranks 20 in the world, behind Canada and many European countries on a  that compares different nations  performance on the SDGs. Launched at last week s United Nations Sustainable Development Goal talks in New York, the Sustainable Development Goal index rated Australia poorly on energy, climate change, and the environment SDGs. The country got a bare pass in other goals such as reducing inequality and responsible consumption and production. On the other hand, Australia rated well on health, water policy and sustainable cities. The 17 SDGs were agreed at the United Nations last  and aim to put the world on a more sustainable economic, social and environmental path over the next 15 years. They also include a number of targets in areas such as health, economic growth and the environment which governments, businesses and communities will aspire to.Businesses are becoming increasingly interested in the SDGs and in aligning their business planning with the goals. A recent survey of over 1,000 Australian and New Zealand businesses indicated that 85% were aware of the goals and many were keen to measure their impact on the SDGs. The  in Australia and New Zealand revealed that the most important SDGs for Australian businesses are gender equality, good health and wellbeing and decent work and economic growth.This is good news. Businesses have a key role in the SDG agenda, and without business there is no chance of achieving them. More and more companies are now mapping their performance against the goals and using them in developing business strategy.For some, a focus on the SDGs will help them reduce regulatory or reputational risks. Agriculture and food businesses need to be aware of SDG targets to ensure more sustainable food production or face future risk. In this regard, the SDG index reveals Australia performs poorly on land clearing and the use of nitrogen based fertilisers. Other businesses can use the SDGs to identify growth opportunities, for example in healthcare, education and renewable energy. Banks, financial services and accounting firms provide the enabling services which the rest of business will rely on if the goals are to be achieved. It is not surprising that the banks and accounting firms are at the forefront of explaining the SDGs to their clients.Gender equality rated as the highest-priority SDG for companies surveyed in accounting and professional services, engineering, finance and insurance and banking. These companies are now putting a greater priority on gender equality in senior management and board positions and in work practices, although we are still well behind many other countries.However the survey showed that Australian companies were less interested in developing products and services with environmentally responsible attributes than their New Zealand counterparts. This may demonstrate the influence in New Zealand of their  clean and green  brand. But it also highlights the gap between company priorities and what is needed for Australia to meet the goals. The most challenging SDGs for Australia are climate action, clean energy, responsible consumption and production and the environment. Yet these are generally not the areas of highest priority for action by Australian companies. And while the survey highlights business interest in the goals, few companies indicated that they were intending to introduce action plans to achieve them.The countries performing best on the SDG index are mainly the northern European countries, with Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Norway among the top performing countries. In these countries, leading businesses such as Ikea and Siemens see environmental performance as a business opportunity as well as an obligation. In Australia companies such as Brambles are now embedding the SDG targets in their business plans. But we have a long way to go.The purpose of the SDG index is to help countries identify the gaps that must be closed in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 and to identify priorities for early action. There is nothing like a bit of competition by comparison to stimulate action. Whether it is at the Olympic Games or in an international benchmarking exercise such as this, Australians like to rate near the top of the pack, not in 20 spot. 