The Victorian government has revealed renewable energy targets that would see 25% of the state s electricity generated by renewable energy by 2020, saying investors have  lost faith  in the national target.Ernst and Young and the Climate Council  on Wednesday that said 50% renewable electricity by 2030 would boost employment by almost 50% more than the current trajectory towards 34% renewables by 2030.Currently, about 14% of Victoria s electricity comes from renewable sources.Victoria s minister for energy, environment and climate change, Lily D Ambrosio, said the target would be raised to 40% by 2025, as she made the announcement at the Ararat windfarm on Wednesday.She said it was anticipated that by 2025 up to 5400 megawatts of new large-scale renewable energy capacity would have been built in , representing an estimated $2.5bn of investment. About 4,000 jobs in the renewable energy sector would be created during the expected peak year of construction in 2024, she said, and there would be a roughly 12% reduction in electricity sector greenhouse emissions by 2034-35. Investors have lost faith in the national target but we are restoring the confidence needed to invest,  D Ambrosio said.The premier, Daniel Andrews, said that the world was shifting to renewable energy and that Victorians expected their government to do the same. It creates jobs, drives growth and protects our environment, and Victorians want to be at the forefront of that,  he said.Andrews also announced an auctions scheme under which project developers would compete to be the lowest cost provider and successful bidders would be given long-term contracts to support their projects, providing certainty for investors. Separate auctions will be held for large-scale solar projects and will begin in early 2017.The chief executive of Environment Victoria, Mark Wakeham, said the ACT government successfully ran similar auctions to guarantee the construction of renewable energy projects. Across the whole country, the renewable energy industry was damaged by the [Coalition] government s slashing of the federal renewable energy target,  he said.  This is the kick-start we need for new projects and job creation across Victoria. The targets will be enforced in legislation expected to be introduced into parliament later this year and form a key part of Victoria s renewable energy action plan, also to be released later this year.The national coordinator of the Australian Wind Alliance, Andrew Bray, said a single windfarm project could  regenerate an entire region . Windfarms create jobs and attract new investment in the parts of our country that need them most,  he said. Workers lost their jobs, and businesses were harmed by attacks under the Abbott government. The industry is finally turning a corner, and communities around Australia are impatient to see new projects get up in their region. 