An Adani executive has said he was flummoxed by the controversy attached to the company s coal ambitions, which led him to wonder whether prejudice against an Indian company in Australia was at play.Muthuraj Guruswamy said hackers trying to compromise Adani s jobs website were the latest hostile distraction, just as the company launched a $1.4m national advertising campaign alongside its overseas push to clinch funds to build Australia s largest coalmine.The four-month public relations drive began on Sunday with primetime national TV slots during  and a four-page liftout in Fairfax s Sydney and Melbourne newspapers that highlighted jobs, rail sleeper and steel orders but avoided mention of the word coal.The  This is Adani  campaign followed advice from a lobbying firm which is staffed by former strategists from both major political parties and helps targets of activism with .The Guardian understands a former federal  advisor, Mark Hrycek, now working for Next Level Strategic Services, is overseeing the Adani campaign, which is produced by global advertising firm Starcom.Next Level s directors are Cameron Milner, a former  Labor secretary and chief of staff to Bill Shorten during the 2016 election campaign, and David Moore, a one-time chief of staff to Howard government minister Mal Brough.Guruswamy, Adani s general manager of corporate affairs in Australia, said he  had this thought in my head for some time now  that the company s Indian roots were a factor in opposition to the Carmichael mine. As a guy coming in as an Indian-born, naturalised Australian for the last 24 years, I ve gone through certain jobs and other areas [where] I felt sometimes like,  Man, is it because I ve an Indian background I m not moving forward in my life? ,  he said.Some reactions to  predicting Adani s opening of the Galilee would harm coal projects elsewhere in Australia prompted similar thoughts, Guruswamy said. I thought [critics] were talking about coal and climate change [but] you ve got Newcastle coal, you got some expansion of mines in the Surat Basin and the Bowen Basin, which are giving thermal coal and all of a sudden it s all OK. And I m thinking, hang on, is it because it s an Indian company? The day after Adani launched its pitch for public hearts and minds, IT staff reported that  we have people trying to hack into our system , Guruswamy said.  We know where it is coming from with the hackers, it s coming from this particular IP,  Guruswamy said, declining to say if it was within Australia.The same day, in an unrelated leak, an environmental protest group, , said it had been given details of the players behind Adani s advertising campaign.Galilee Blockade spokesman Ben Pennings said these showed  the revolving door between mainstream politics and the fossil fuel lobby is going so fast it could generate electricity itself . We have a recent Liberal Party operative working for an ex-Labor Party big wig, trying to convince us a complete lemon is a sweet Bowen mango,  Pennings, a former Greens candidate, said. No wonder people take to the streets when both Queensland Labor and the federal  happily meet with lobbyists they used to work with. Milner and Moore did not return calls, and an email request for comment from Hrycek did not receive a response.Guruswamy said when he first looked at the proposed Galilee mines as an  outsider  working at QR National during the mining boom,  people were making fun of Clive Palmer with his Waratah coal, GVK had some issues [but] I don t think this [Adani] project was looked at as a controversy . Why is this [now] a controversial project? I don t understand it at all. Guruswamy said the advertising campaign would  go everywhere , from supportive regional Queensland communities to southern capitals where many of its activist opponents are based.Adani s campaign marked  a time to say to the world  that jobs were flowing and finance would be clinched, despite the scepticism of some critics and longstanding opposition from environmentalists and some traditional owners, he said.Guruswamy said he took  some consolation  that politicians across the spectrum who  support us openly and take all the hits from their constituencies   or the GetUps or the ABCs or the Guardians of the world - would have done some due diligence  on Adani and its ability to deliver the US$16bn project.The campaign came at a time when Adani considered its solar projects in Queensland a riskier investment than a $2b railway to open up the Galilee basin coalfields, he said.This was despite uncertainty about how much private finance Adani would gain for its railway, and therefore the amount of  gap funding  it would seek from the Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility (Naif) to make up the difference, Guruswamy said.Pennings said Adani, which had reportedly applied for up to $900m in Naif funding for its railway,  will need to spend more than one and a half million to convince us they should get a cool billion of our taxes .But marketing and public relations experts said it was not green-leaning opponents but people on the street, along with  business influencers  in Sydney and Melbourne, that were the targets of Adani s advertising. At the end of the day, green groups, you re not going to change their minds, so really any kind of advertising is aimed at those who don t have a strong opinion,  Margaret Lawson, who runs a Brisbane PR firm, said. The general person in the street probably realises there s some opposition and different opinions but they may not be able to articulate the difference on issues and what the opposition has been around. If the only impression in detail they have is from the ads, it ll be a positive one, [leading] the undecided to, even if not supporting the project, to not be openly opposed to it. Lawson said coal companies  need a social licence to operate, which is more than just your regulatory approvals and your funding agreements . Ultimately their business objectives won t be achieved if there s widespread community opposition, and that s ongoing,  she said. A social licence to operate is about having people know what you stand for and having an unimpeded channel to communicate your key messages, instead of getting them diluted in the debate on policy issues and regulation. Lawson said an example of this was the advertisements  reference to a total 10,000  direct and indirect  jobs, .Guruswamy said he had recently quipped to a senior government figure that he should be able to count paid roles stemming from the Stop Adani campaign as jobs generated by Adani., I want to know all those jobs and I want to put it as part of my indirect jobs created.  Branding consultant Allan Bonsall said the general public would regard  the Adani brand as an Indian mining magnate that probably makes too much money for his own good .  They know there s a mine and vested interests involved, probably not a lot of positive vibes around it, but not necessarily negative,  he said. Adani was trying to  win that emotional space just as much as winning the rational space  in debate over the mine. Adani s no dummy, they know people are reacting from a point of view of renewables, coal is dirty etcetera,  Bonsall said.  What we re seeing is that underpinning of the emotional reasons why Adani is a good corporate citizen, reinforcing its business credentials. Clearly what they re wanting to do is reaffirm in everybody s head that idea that there s a positive side, and the fact they don t make any reference to coal shows they don t want to flag that as an immediate negative. Guruswamy said Adani considered its five-year pipeline of 1500MW in solar projects across Queensland to be  more risk [financially] than putting in 388km of railway line  for a coal mine.  That s no joke. As no Australian governments had set renewable energy targets beyond 2030, banks were refusing to lend for large-scale solar projects that took longer to deliver a return, Guruswamy said.