A report that warned of Christmas blackouts next year and purported to come from a group of MPs has been discredited after it emerged it was only backed by a single MP and included misleading claims.The British Infrastructure Group (BIG), chaired by Conservative MP Grant Shapps, published  on Monday that said coal power station closures and a drive for renewable energy had left the UK facing  intermittent blackouts for the foreseeable future .The dire prediction was attributed to a  group of MPs  in , including , which wrote  Britain teeters on the brink of an energy crisis, MPs claim .Emails from Shapps to journalists before the report was published show it was billed as coming from a group of MPs.  The British Infrastructure Group of MPs (BIG) is releasing a new report warning of potential blackouts over this and next Christmas thanks to mismanagement of the UK s electricity networks,  he wrote.But Shapps was the only MP to put his name to the report, titled , his office told the Guardian. Green campaigners said the report was  laughable  and  crap .  experts also said its central claim   that the UK was on the verge of blackouts next winter   was wrong and misleading.The report written by researcher Tim Philpott said the UK s spare electricity margin had fallen from 17% in the winter of 2011-12 to about 1% this winter, and household bills would rise  30 by 2020 to plug the gap.  It is laughable that anyone would take this report seriously. Only one MP supported it, and that s Grant Shapps,  said Kate Blagojevic, energy campaigner at Greenpeace UK.  The 1% figure for the electricity margin is just scaremongering by climate sceptics and those with vested interests in keeping dirty, polluting old coal power stations online. Time you came clean on whether  other MPs endorsed your crap report,   Guy Shrubsole, a campaigner at Friends of the Earth.Jim Watson, director of the UK Energy Research Centre, said the report was wrong to make the 1% claim. National Grid s true figure is 6.6%, which  and takes into account capacity measures it has put in place to ensure security of supply. Whilst it would be desirable to have a higher margin, it is also wrong to blame this situation on the closure of coal-fired power stations. These stations are old and were due to close anyway,  Watson said. The National Grid  the margin was  tight but manageable . Like the  [a demonic creature in European folklore], this claim is little more than annual festive fear-mongering,  wrote the European Environmental Bureau in a letter to the Guardian.  The conclusions of this report are not founded in reality,  said a spokesman.  Coal use in the UK is at an all-time low and in the last 10 years there has only been one instance of the power being cut because of a problem with generation in the UK, affecting a few hundred thousand people for just half an hour. The report s claim about rising bills is much higher than government estimates of  10 per household. The higher figure appeared to be reached by overlooking businesses and industry shouldering two-thirds of the costs.Matt Ridley, an author and columnist , wrote in the report:  The lights will probably stay on this winter, but only just, and at exorbitant cost. This is a self-inflicted harm to the British economy from policies that have put decarbonisation at any price ahead of security and affordability of supply. In a statement, Philpott said:  BIG doesn t have a standing membership of MPs, rather MPs support individual pieces of work. Over a series of reports, more than 200 MPs have backed specific campaigns. Their names are listed within the downloadable reports. However, as is always made clear, backing for one report does not mean backing for any other. There is no standing membership. With  campaigning  reports BIG seeks support from MPs in advance of publication in order to run a campaign around a particular topic [mobile coverage, broadband, air passenger duty, etc]. However, the energy report is purely research and the report has been published on that basis. 