President Trump's verified @realDonaldTrump account went offline. All it said was "Sorry, that page doesn't exist!" Horrors! Within minutes, it reappeared -- his tweets intact. One of the social media site's verified accounts later explained that Trump's account was "down for 11 minutes" and was "inadvertently deactivated due to a human error by a Twitter employee." Earlier today @realdonaldtrump's account was inadvertently deactivated due to human error by a Twitter employee. The account was down for 11 minutes, and has since been restored. We are continuing to investigate and are taking steps to prevent this from happening again.  But Twitter lit up with speculation, conspiracy theories, and plenty of sarcastic jokes about Trump's brief exodus. "In that moment, 'Sorry, that page doesn't exist!' [Trump] truly became President," one user wrote. In that moment, "Sorry, that page doesn't exist!" truly became President "That was like .003 Scaramuccis," wrote another use, referring to the president's short-lived communications director. That was like .003 Scaramuccis "If Trump's Twitter is down, does this technically mean he's no longer POTUS? I mean, it's the only part of the job he pays attention to," another said. If Trump's Twitter is down, does this technically mean he's no longer POTUS? I mean, it's the only part of the job he pays attention to. This is like when Lindbergh disappeared in The Plot Against America https://t.co/zTCbulAPSO Some users, like New Republic editor Jeet Heer, mocked the furor. One tweet from Heer read, "Wait, Trump's twitter account has disappeared. Is this how we do coups now?" Wait, Trump's twitter account has disappeared. Is this how we do coups now? https://t.co/4rL1zGXicV  Where were you when you heard that Trump's twitter account had been deleted? Grandpa, where were you during the Trump Tweet Brownout of '17? Others speculated about whether Twitter barred Trump from the platform. My guess: Trump's lawyers told him to delete his account, because he is in serious legal jeopardy Perhaps one of the most defining elements of his presidency, Trump's Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) use consistently makes headlines. Trump often uses the platform to levy attacks publicly. Those on the receiving end of his tweets include Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill who he views as roadblocks to his policy initiatives. The press has often been the subject of vitriolic tweets. And NFL players who kneel during the anthem to protest racial injustice have been targets of @realDonaldTrump. Related: Trump's tweets lead to bad news coverage, study shows Perhaps most notably, however, Trump has also used Twitter to lash out at North Korea, the rogue Asian nation that claims to have a newly bolstered nuclear arsenal. "Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N. If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!" Trump tweeted in September, using his choice nickname for North Korea leader Kim Jong-un. The North Korean government claimed the tweet constituted a declaration of war. Many called for Trump to be booted from the platform, arguing his tweets -- which often seem to be typed out on a whim -- could plunge America into a nuclear war. But Twitter declined to bar Trump's account, saying it must weigh the newsworthiness of Trump's tweets with its violent rhetoric.