The commercial space outfit, headed by Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) CEO Jeff Bezos, took to Twitter to announced the BE-4 engine survived its first test fire. The rocket engine has been under development for more than six years, and a successful test fire confirms the engine is on track to become operational within the first couple years of the 2020s. The BE-4 is a big deal for Blue Origin, which plans to use it to power its New Glenn rocket -- a massive machine that will be capable of sending satellites into orbit and competing with Elon Musk's SpaceX and United Launch Alliance for launch contracts. First hotfire of our BE-4 engine is a success #GradatimFerociter pic.twitter.com/xuotdzfDjF It's also a big deal for the private space industry in general. Blue Origin CEO: We're taking tourists to space within 18 months The BE-4's stated goal is "to end American dependence on the Russian-made RD-180 engine." In addition to using the engine in its own rockets, Blue Origin hopes to sell the BE- 4 to United Launch Alliance -- a joint venture between Boeing (BA) and Lockheed Martin (LMT) -- for use on its new rocket series, called Vulcan. Vulcan is the answer to an ongoing problem for ULA: Its Atlas V rocket relies on the Russian RD-180 engine, making the government wary of using the rocket for sensitive national security payloads. ULA does have an alternative. It currently produces a rocket called Delta IV, which uses American-made engines and has frequently been used to launch payloads for the U.S. military. But Delta IV is very expensive to manufacture -- nearly twice as expensive as SpaceX's Falcon 9 by some estimates. ULA is looking to retire the Delta IV and begin making the new Vulcan series, which will be more competitive with SpaceX price-wise. And, taking a page out of SpaceX's playbook, Vulcan rockets will be partially reusable. That means instead of discarding a rocket after a single launch, it'll be able to fly again and again, significantly reducing the price of a single launch.