  Nintendo has announced that its Miiverse social network will be closed down on 8 November. The platform lets players post messages and drawings on game-related message boards, and share tips and hints. Miiverse posts also appear within some popular Wii U and 3DS games, but the posts will disappear in November. Miiverse was launched in 2012 alongside the Wii U games console and could be accessed on the 3DS, but did not appear on the new Nintendo Switch. The social network was notable for the detailed hand-drawn images that were shared by artistic gamers, which would appear within popular titles. It also gained a reputation for irreverent and often inappropriate message board posts. "my sunglasses hide my crippling self esteem issues" pic.twitter.com/TnogDPfW9M End of Twitter post by @BadMiiversePost "i hate my mom and dad" (via @LHyrulian) pic.twitter.com/3pEmlDYWeB End of Twitter post 2 by @BadMiiversePost This guy buys every game and then comments on how good the water looks in it. pic.twitter.com/GuGx61jCU2 End of Twitter post 3 by @BadMiiversePost "It was a chaotic but moderately successful experiment in creating a social network," said Tom Phillips from games site Eurogamer. "The highlight was some of the incredible art - it was certainly the best of what Miiverse had to offer - but it was always a headache for Nintendo to police. "Some of the moderation was entrusted to an algorithm, you could draw a penis shape and it would be deleted," he told the BBC. Occasionally, however, rude drawings did slip through the net. "It's such a family-focused brand, it was very un-Nintendo in a way to let people have free range to scribble things and have them appear in the games themselves," said Mr Phillips. "What they wanted to create was a feeling of inclusivity and empathy. In one game you'd have posts popping up saying, 'I died a lot here,' or, 'That was a big surprise,' and that's very Nintendo." Announcing the closure, Nintendo said: "All services offered through Miiverse, including reading and submitting posts and exchanging messages with friends, will no longer be available." While games will still work after 8 November, some key features will disappear. "It never helped increase the reach of the Nintendo brand," said Mr Phillips. "Breakout moments - like the Luigi death stare meme - came from people posting images on YouTube and Twitter," he told the BBC. "Why make your own social network when there already are some that quite a few people use?"