  Regulators in California have temporarily suspended a Ford-owned transport start-up after its vehicles failed multiple inspections. Chariot is a fleet of Ford Transit vans that ferry passengers along popular routes in San Francisco. In a note to users, Chariot said it expected to  resolve the disruption quickly . Regulator the California Public Utility Commission (CPUC) said it had a responsibility to keep the public safe. Chariot has irked regulators in the city before. Earlier this month it was warned to stop mimicking - and congesting - routes already being offered by existing public transport. Chariot has been operating for more than three years and offers a monthly subscription for the short journeys, or one-off fares of $5 during peak hours. Ford bought the start-up in 2016 for an undisclosed sum, estimated to be in the region of $60m. Ford did not offer further comment on Thursday, referring the BBC to Chariot s statement. The suspension was handed down by the CPUC, which oversees privately-owned companies offering infrastructure services, on Wednesday. Chariot informed its users on Thursday. It promised to reimburse customers who paid for the monthly service. The email to customers said:  Even though Chariot is in full compliance with all regulations, we have received an order from a regulator to temporarily suspend service.  When asked by the BBC, the CPUC would not confirm the exact reason behind the decision, other than to say the company s vehicles fell short when inspected. "Yesterday we suspended Chariot s TCP operating permit because Chariot did not pass three successive California Highway Patrol inspections,  said CPUC spokesman Christopher Chow. "The CPUC has a responsibility to suspend a carrier s operating permit for failure to maintain a vehicle in safe operating mode, other violations related to transportation safety and/or failure to comply with the DMV s employee Pull Notice Program." The Pull Notice Program is a scheme which enables the sharing of employee records between companies that hire drivers. Correction 20 October 2017: An earlier version of this article incorrectly cited Salon.com as the source of a quote about Chariot. Their quote was instead referring to Lyft Shuttle and has since been removed. _____ Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC You can reach Dave securely through encrypted messaging app Signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370