: As I write this you know nothing about anything as you haven t been born yet. That means I have your undivided attention and you can t interrupt me, which is the way I prefer my relationships. You will have two sisters and a brother, all of whom will be older than you because they are already born.  I would like to show you some of the things that you are going to see in the world.Between you and me I rather prefer oranges but they don t grow in Sweden. Apples have a much thinner skin than oranges and are green. When I was small I used to always eat the core, but now I have learned to love myself I only eat the nice bits.: Sometimes wasps look like tiny Faberg  eggs and at other times they don t. They can also give you a nasty sting so it s probably best to  if at all possible.: When you go shopping and forget to bring anything in which to take your purchases home, you are usually offered a plastic bag. Some plastic bags can be quite pretty but on the whole they are a bad thing as they . I dug up a plastic bag when I tried to plant a shrub the other day.: You will be born without teeth but they will start to grow when you are about a year old. Your  will remain part of you until the day you die unless they have already fallen out.: At the last count, I reckon I must have pissed about 75,000 times in my life. I can t remember my first piss and you won t remember yours either. Piss is usually yellow. The last time I pissed myself was when I was 15. Luckily no one noticed so I wasn t as ashamed as I would have been if everyone had laughed at me. Peeing yourself can be quite nice.: There isn t quite as much blood inside you as you may think. Most people have about nine pints. A small cut can produce what may look like a lot of blood but in reality isn t very much. Be careful of losing too much blood though, because then you might die.: You are a bit bigger than you were last time I looked. I hope you aren t too bored by what I am telling you.: If you look at a pair of boots they can look a bit like detached feet. That s because the boots are shaped to fit over a pair of feet. Otherwise they might fall off. For the same reason, jackets have two sleeves; one for each arm. Rubber boots are rubber so you don t get wet in puddles. That s probably all you need to know about rubber boots.: I have often wondered whether badgers have black faces with a white stripe down the middle or white faces with two black stripes down the side. In my opinion, badgers aren t nearly as interesting as bears, but I guess you may feel differently.: Lots of people used to laugh at me because I didn t drive a car until I was 39. I just didn t feel ready for the responsibility. Now I feel OK about driving.: The thing you have to know about  is that for much of his career he wasn t a very good painter. He only got good when he started thinking a lot about death. Something you might have been thinking about now, were you able to think of anything.: Some experiences are good and some are bad. It s up to you to decide which is which.: I will be 45 by the time you are born. That means we are only likely to have 30 years together at most before I die of some hideous wasting disease. The upside is that I will be able to get a 12-volume series out of my final illness.: Mostly, though not always,  are round and are used to preserve foods in an airtight environment. In some ways we are all tin cans eking out an existence of moderate futility.: There is something quite special about a sunrise. Once the sun is above a certain height in the sky it is no longer dawn. Halfway through the morning it is time for elevenses.: If we didn t have a , our house would fill with smoke every time we lit a fire. Chimneys are weird things because you can never see all of them at once because part of them are inside the house and part outside. Weird.: My favourite book is . As far as I know, Flaubert didn t write any children s books so you probably won t get round to reading him for a few years.: I have never properly understood eyes. Are yours open or closed, I wonder? Closed I suspect. One day you may use your eyes to read this. Though probably not.: words between two covers.																																											