A wall between Mexico and the USA has been under consideration since 1993. Donald Trump has merely garnished the issue with an extra sprinkle of offence by making it a central plank of his presidency and insisting that Mexico pay for it. This film visits the border and finds paranoia, shame and, above all, division. In this, as in so many other things, the president＊s ability to take a difficult situation and make it worse is uncanny. The laughs quite literally don＊t ever start in this new series. Some reliable faces 每 Al Murray, Nish Kumar, Radio 1＊s Clara Amfo, Anneka Rice 每 turn up to subject themselves to a selection of trivia games. There is nothing objectionable about Osman or any of the participants, but when one of the guests on your new show confesses to ※glazing over§ when you are barely five minutes into the broadcast, something of the magic dies a little. Five simple ingredients boshed together to create an amazing dish. That＊s the USP of Saint Oliver＊s current foodie gospel, and he preaches it with unmatched energy, coining new words such as ※sprinklage§ while remaining incapable of picking up a frying pan without spinning it like a football rattle. A Jenga tower of glazed Asian fishcakes and a luscious lamb chop one-pot jamboree are among the items on his plausibly fuss-free menu. If you bridle at people treating Princess Diana＊s death as a major event in their own lives, avoid this mawkish drama. Four unrelated journeys of self-discovery begin at the moment of the Paris crash, resolving with childish simplicity on the day of the funeral; Diana provides the emotional pay-off that the stories are too weak to muster on their own. A film solely about Tamsin Greig and John Gordon Sinclair＊s struggling Glaswegian florists might have had a stronger identity. Dewsbury is among Britain＊s most racially segregated towns. From these different districts, two teenage girls 每 one white British, one Asian Muslim 每 form an arranged friendship in front of a camera crew, their nascent bond followed throughout. An admittedly contrived premise, and this tale of teens embracing their differences is no cure for a Brexit-bruised Britain, but genuinely heartening nonetheless. Davina McCall hosts this new eight-part discussion series talking about ※real life§ and ※modern dilemmas§. No, it doesn＊t sound hugely promising, but this first episode on self-image, body dysmorphia and ※the pursuit of perfection§ works well, as McCall proves adept at creating an intimate space for her guests to open up. Those sharing their experiences include Dr Christian Jessen, who reveals the ※deep, dark secret§ of having suffered from bulimia. Davis, a graduate of standup, Snapchat and talkshow gag-writing, fronts a mix of skits and live bits that, like a friendlier Dave Chappelle, satirises the white view of black America. Davis was brought up near, but not in, the roughest districts of LA, so he blends self-deprecating outsiderdom with his role as an arch tour guide. The highlight of the opener: collaring two drunk Irishmen and offering a prize if they＊ll ※say the N-word§.  (Francesco Munzi, 2014) 1.25am, Film4Calabrian goatherd Luciano Carbone just wants to tend his flock, but since his brothers Luigi (played by Marco Leonardi, the kid from Cinema Paradiso) and Rocco are up to their necks in organised crime and a neverending round of vendetta killings, there＊s little chance of that. Family is all-important in this shadowy, violent thriller.  10am, ITV4Stage two, featuring a 211km route from Kielder Water and Forest Park to Blyth. 7pm, Sky Sports Main EventCoverage of the World Cup Group F qualifier at Hampden Park. 7.15pm, ITVAnother Group F qualifier from Wembley, as Gareth Southgate＊s men look to defeat Slovakia.																																											