There can be no argument as to The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, the 1974 horror film about a group of teenagers who fall into the clutches of a psychopathic family, being one of the most pervasively disquieting films ever made. Its uniquely rotten, insidious flavour is the result of macabre production design, degraded cinematography, clammy lighting and a sophisticated and abrasive use of sound. Like ＊s Night of the Living Dead and ＊s The Last House on the Left, the film used horror to express the discontentment of a country reeling from Vietnam and widespread social unrest. Fans included Ridley Scott (※It shocked the hell out of me§), , who bought his own print, and , director of The Exorcist, who said it ※transcended the [horror] genre§.Its writer-director, , who has died aged 74, was already working on a story about young people in peril when he found himself one weekend in the hardware department of a busy store while trying to locate the exit. ※I looked down and there was a rack of chain saws in front of me for sale. I said, ＆if I start the saw, those people would just part. They would get out of my way.＊§ So was born a movie 每 and a character, Leatherface, the chain saw-wielding brute wearing a mask of human skin 每 that would become a benchmark in horror and a thorn in the side of film censors everywhere.Ten local authorities in Britain showed the film with an X rating after the BBFC (British Board of Film Censors, as it was known until 1984) refused to issue a certificate in 1975 on the grounds that the picture exemplified ※the pornography of terror§, though when that body finally relented in 1999, it noted that ※§. Indeed, Hooper＊s greatest achievement is to have created an atmosphere of extreme dread and distress chiefly through insinuation.It will be some small compensation for audiences terrified by the film that it was even more hellish to work on than it was to watch. The stench of animal bones and carcasses in the stifling heat caused cast and crew members to throw up. There were accidents and injuries (※Everyone had got a ding on the head or a cut to this or that,§ noted Hooper) while the clutch had to be removed from the chain saw itself after an actor fell while operating it. Hooper engineered divisions among his cast to create tension and refused to let them see Leatherface until their first encounter with him on camera. ※That was the heaviest set I＊ve ever been on,§ the director said. ※It was miserable really.§Tobe was born in Austin, Texas, the son of Lois (nee Crosby) and Norman Hooper: he claimed his mother went into labour in the cinema.  in San Angelo. After studying film at the University of Texas he worked as a documentary cameraman and a college professor.He made his feature debut with Eggshells (1969), a partly improvised psychedelic drama described by Hooper as ※§, and directed The Song Is Love (1970), a documentary about the folk trio . Hooper then co-wrote The Texas Chain Saw Massacre with , who had starred in Eggshells.He remained in the horror genre for Eaten Alive (1976), about a killer who feeds his victims to his pet alligator; a well-regarded TV adaptation of Stephen King＊s vampire novel Salem＊s Lot (1979), starring James Mason and David Soul; and The Funhouse (1981), in which teenagers hiding out at a carnival overnight are preyed on by a killer. He directed Poltergeist (1982), written by Steven Spielberg, but spent many years defending the work as his own following an LA Times article headlined Poltergeist: Whose Film Is It? in which Spielberg was quoted as saying: ※Tobe isn＊t what you＊d call a take-charge sort of guy. He＊s just not a strong presence on a movie set.§ Spielberg published an open letter of apology, though this did not lay the matter to rest.Hooper said that Hollywood stopped calling in the wake of the Poltergeist rumours. He turned to the producers Cannon Films to make Lifeforce (1985) and Invaders from Mars (1986), camp science-fiction horror movies from which no one emerged with distinction, as well as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (also 1986). For this attempt to continue the story with a rowdier and more satirical tone, Hooper hired , co-writer of Paris, Texas, who advised him that they would need to find the right sort of victims. Once again, it was a shopping trip that provided inspiration. ※I saw all these yuppies buying piles of things, seven sweaters at a time,§ said Carson. ※I called Tobe up and said, ＆I＊ve found the victims.＊§ The picture was no match for Cannon Films, which was reportedly more brutal in its cutting even than Leatherface himself.From then on he worked mainly in television directing episodes of Tales from the Crypt and The Equaliser, and a segment of the 1993 portmanteau TV film Body Bags. His final film, Djinn (2013), a horror story set in the United Arab Emirates, attracted scathing reviews.Hooper was married and divorced twice. He is survived by his son, William Tony. Willard Tobe Hooper, writer and director, born 25 January 1943; died 26 August 2017 This article was amended on 17 September 2017. Hooper＊s first name was Willard, rather than William, and he is survived by one son, William Tony Hooper, not two, William and Tony, as originally stated. 																																											