?It has brewed for three decades. The seeds were planted in 1986 when I first went to Yugoslavia, as a Four Corners reporter, looking for evidence of Nazi war criminals who d concealed their dark history and come to live in Australia. Had they remained underground and kept their secrets they might not have been detected but some of them chose to cause trouble here. One such character was a Melbourne man called Srecko Rover. A wartime officer in the murderous Ustasha, Rover founded the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood in Australia. That highly secretive brotherhood organised terrorist activities in Australia, including bombings, intimidation, extortion and the training of foreign fighters for armed incursions behind the iron curtain. In archives in Zagreb and Sarajevo we found documented proof of his war crimes in 1941. Back then, the Nazi-backed Ustasha regime was run by the self-styled Poglavik, a Croatian f hrer, called Ante Pavelic. The Pavelic regime was so pathologically brutal in its campaigns of ethic cleansing and religious persecution that even their SS military advisors were appalled. Rover had commanded a so-called mobile court martial, which roamed the Bosnian countryside murdering opponents. The Ustasha in Sarajevo, Rover s hometown, were active participants in the Holocaust, working with the German Nazis to round up and exterminate that city s long-established and thriving Jewish community.  It struck me as extraordinary that such a person could have been allowed to settle here and then create an Ustasha-style brotherhood. I thought a great deal about the young men he had indoctrinated, some of whom were sent to their deaths in the 60s and 70s on missions to stage armed rebellions deep inside Yugoslavia, against Tito s communist regime. I thought that, getting inside the heads of these men would best be accomplished in a novel. So, these were the seeds of The Twentieth Man. They would take root five years later when I went as a correspondent to cover the collapse of Yugoslavia and the brutal wars that resulted. Not so tricky really. History tells us that in June of 1972, 19 heavily armed men hiked over the Austrian Alps and crossed the iron curtain into Yugoslavia. Eleven of them were Australian citizens or residents, trained in this country for their mission to stage an uprising against Tito s communist regime. They were detected by the Yugoslav military and eventually trapped on a mountain called Radusa, in southern Bosnia. After a series of running battles they were all either killed or captured. The survivors were tried in Sarajevo and executed. It was rumoured at the time that there was a 20th man who escaped that fate. This imagined figure is the subject of my title.?I became a London-based foreign correspondent soon after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and spent much of the next three years reporting the collapse of communism in eastern Europe. The longed-for freedom had unforeseen consequences, especially in the former Yugoslavia where nationalist aspirations and old religious animosities fired up conflicts on Europe s border more brutal than anything since world war two. I was plunged into it as a journalist just five years after travelling there for Four Corners and I watched as young men flooded in, drawn to this conflict from the Yugoslav diaspora in Australia, Canada, Britain and the United States. Some were incredibly brave and noble in their aspirations but others, including both Serb and Croat Australians, would commit terrible war crimes. Mark Twain once said that history doesn t repeat itself but it rhymes. I saw, or rather heard, those rhymes during that terrible conflict and the idea of writing this novel, and its sequel, really began then to form in my head.I can t speak for those others except to say that I imagine, like me, they have been reading novels all their lives and love them. I make no claim here to any literary comparison (obviously) but one of the greatest novelists of all time, Leo Tolstoy, began his writing career as a war correspondent, setting out his terrible experiences in the Crimean war in a slim volume called The Sevastopol Sketches (it makes a fleeting appearance in my novel when the protagonist Marin Katich pulls it out of his backpack). I understand why Tolstoy was inspired to shift from journalistic reporting to fiction. Fiction frees you from the constraints of journalism, it allows you to enter the minds of your characters and gives you an unlimited canvas on which they can live and act.Yes, but if you put her on the scales she probably outweighs all of the male characters put together. I once joked that I was tempted to call my book  The Girl With the Hammer and Sickle Tattoo , although in truth, despite her admiration for her communist father, Anna would have scoured that emblem off her flesh after the Soviet tanks rolled into Prague in 1968. She is a young, Jewish, radical thinker, an early adopter feminist, a leader in the anti-Vietnam war movement and an accomplished student newspaper editor. When recruited into the ABC she is forced to confront misogyny in the boy s clubs that the news and current affairs divisions were in the 1970s. Ask any of women who worked there at the time and I m sure they will confirm that they confronted a male-dominated world and an often hostile one. Some of the terrible indignities suffered by Anna are based on the reminiscences of my female colleagues. We are not like that anymore, thank God, as you can see from the ranks of our on-air presenters and senior editorial staff in today s ABC, but back in the dark ages of steam-radio, well, the past is a different country.Since 1986 I ve been back and forth to what was once Yugoslavia many times. During and after the conflict in the 90s I travelled to many regions as a reporter. I lived for some time in 1996, with my wife Sarah and our two-year-old son, in a town called Rovinj, on the Croatian coast and it was there that I began to write and research this novel and its sequel. The war was not over then and that beautiful fishing port was a place of rehabilitation for Croatian soldiers, damaged both physically and psychologically. I went back there again recently, and while I m not surprised by it, I felt that the redolence of violent conflict still clings to the place, despite its incessant summer partying. It seemed to me there was a kind of desperation to prove that the past is forgotten and all is well with the present.No, I won t be appearing as a writers  festival panellist, we have far more accomplished people to choose from. As to being on the other side of the microphone and answering the questions of smart readers, I felt rather exposed. As the book tour progresses, I m getting more used to it but I m far more comfortable asking questions than answering them.Ah, Lionel Murphy! Now there s a character you d be unlikely to see in modern politics. As attorney general Murphy was a radical reformer who changed the country in fundamental ways   no-fault divorce, the Trade Practices Act, freedom of information legislation, the Senate committee system   these were just some of the changes he inspired. But he was also responsible for the most reckless act in the early days of the Whitlam government, one that gave his conservative opponents much-needed momentum after their demoralising defeat. Murphy s fabled  Asio raid  in March of 73 is a key part of my narrative. We go with Murphy, and his confederates, commonwealth police and staff, on the wild ride that ends up at the St Kilda Road headquarters of Asio. It was an act that resonated all the way to Langley, Virginia where the CIA s counter-intelligence chief James Jesus Angleton became convinced that the Australian Labor government were a bunch of socialist renegades, prepared to put at risk  the crown jewels  of western intelligence. History has largely forgotten that Murphy was trying to foil an assassination plot and believed that his security service was concealing vital information from him. That assassination plot is what drives my novel to its conclusion.There is, as I ve forecast, a sequel to The Twentieth Man so if you are engaged by Marin and Anna, and their most unlikely romance, you ll find that their history is far from over. Hopefully, that s also true of my long history with the ABC. Anna Rosen spent almost an hour on the phone tracking down contacts while monitoring the radio coverage of the bombing. Then she rang McHugh at the office. Hi, Peter, I ve made some calls   .  McHugh interrupted.  What are you hearing? He sounded jittery and Anna registered something else in his voice. She knew that journalists were not the most admirable of creatures. Their first reaction when broken bodies and severed limbs were strewn through the city was not revulsion; it was excitement. She heard it in Peter s voice now and was surprised to find that she felt the same impulse. It s hard to get on to people because of the panic,  she explained.  But I ve spoken to a few close to the Croats. Most are too scared to say much, but no one s in any doubt who did it. I got through to Marjan Jurjevic and he straightaway blamed the Ustasha. Jurjevic?  McHugh said, scrolling back through a long list of Balkan names in his head.  The whistleblower?   That s right, he s in Melbourne. Marjan Jurjevic. He s not a neutral commentator. A left-wing Croat who hates the Ustasha; he s the one they keep trying to kill. They ve branded him a traitor. I remember now-brave bastard. Yes, he is. Anyway, Marjan told me something very interesting. He got information last night, obviously before anyone had a clue what was about to happen in Sydney, that Ustasha terrorists had just hijacked a Scandinavian airliner in Stockholm. They re demanding the release of the six Croats held in Swedish jails. What, the same fellows you ve been looking into? The same ones. The men they want the Swedes to set free areall members of the cell that assassinated the Yugoslavian ambassador in Stockholm earlier this year. Now, remember what my commonwealth police source told me? That there s an Australian connection? Exactly. The Swedes contacted our police months ago to pass on intelligence that the embassy killers have links to the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood in Sydney. OK,  said McHugh, considering the implications.  So are you saying the Sydney bombs and this Swedish hijacking are connected? Not me; Marjan Jurjevic is. He s convinced of it because of the timing. And listen to this. First thing this morning he rang Special Branch in Melbourne to warn them to keep watch up here because something could happen. Then the bombs went off in Sydney. She could hear McHugh breathing heavily as he contemplated the new information. Have you spoken again to your police source?  he asked.  No, I only have his office phone and it just rings out. It s Saturday of course, but I ll bet he s on his way to Sydney. McHugh had heard enough.  OK, Anna, this is what we re going to do. I m going to bring your program forward to Monday night. That gives you 48 hours. We ll open a slot at 9pm. We can t sit on this material. Too many other journalists will be crawling all over this story and right now you re ahead of them. Anna bit her thumbnail. This was what McHugh was famously good at: backing his judgment, setting the agenda and trusting his people to do the job. So, what do you think?  McHugh pressed.  Can you do it? I can, Peter, but I ll need to go down to Melbourne as soon as possible. The attorney general has agreed to do a fresh interview with me tomorrow morning and I want to get Jurjevic on tape while I m down there. McHugh paused. He realised she had anticipated his decision.  You ve spoken to Greenwood s people already then, have you? Yeah, I figured you d want me to do that. You re right, well done. Let s get you on a plane tonight. We ll organise flights and a hotel for tonight, and book you a Comcar for tomorrow. Sure: she tried not to sound overwhelmed.  I can t just do the government, though. Right, we ll need the opposition. What about Cairns or Murphy? Yeah, Lionel Murphy, I reckon. As Greenwood s shadow he s the one who s been asking him the toughest questions about Croat extremists. He s all over this stuff. Do you know Murph? I ve never met him, if that s what you mean. You re in for a treat: McHugh chuckled. And I know he ll like you. What do you mean? You ll find out. Come on, Peter, what are you getting at? He s a very charming man, that s all. Right,  Anna said, her suspicions aroused.  I was going to interview him anyway. But he s in Canberra so I ll have to go there from Melbourne on the way back. What do you think? I think you re going to have a busy weekend. Do you need help with the script? No, I can handle it. I ll need someone to get dubs for me of the actuality from the bombings. I ll get that done, transcribed and left on your desk while you re on the road. All right. I ll top and tail it with news of the bombings, and weave Greenwood and Murphy into it. Anna? Seriously, I can do it. Sunday will be an all-nighter, but I m up for it. We can go through the changes on Monday morning.   Good girl. Off you go then. Anna wanted to tell him not to patronise her, but she held her tongue.																																											