With it becoming , it is sometimes hard to recall that Marianne Elliott and Tom Morris s staging of Michael Morpurgo s children s novel about a horse in the trenches during the first world war was no sure-fire thing; even during previews, there were many changes. The show s use of puppetry is now mainstream, but was daring at the time. It s those puppets that make this such a magical production.Bath s Ustinov theatre has been firing on all cylinders under Laurence Boswell, so it s good to see one he directed earlier   Alice Childress s pioneering 1955 satire of race and prejudice   pitching up in London.  is magnificent as the black actor Wiletta Mayer, who has long dreamed of playing Broadway and who finds herself cast in a production with a white director at the helm. But, before long, hypocrisies and prejudices come to the surface ... and Theresa Heskins s even smarter production make light work of Phileas Fogg s attempts to circumnavigate the globe. It s fun, too, to see the relationship play out between the stiff-upper-lipped Fogg, very much a product of the British empire, and his French manservant Passepartout. in 1969 transfers from the Almeida in a production by Rupert Goold, with Bertie Carvel reprising his superb performance as the media mogul. It s a sprawling but very entertaining and funny evening, which shows that, like the best newspaper editors, Graham is a playwright with an eye for a really good story. Female friendship is the subject of , which charts the relationship of Lorna and Grace, who have been friends since primary school but whose lives take very different turns. On the brink of university, Grace gets pregnant and stays in the small town where they were both raised, while Lorna goes off to London. It s small and knotty in length but epic in scope and unblinkingly honest about sex, friendship and opportunity.Hofesh Shechter s latest production imagines the human race hurtling towards an anarchic apocalypse. With a band on stage alongside the 10 dancers, this promises to match the epic scale of the choreographer s best and angriest work.The latest work from the inspiring , an outfit that makes art from previous experiences of addiction and recovery.Strictly professional Natalie Lowe leads a jitterbugging showcase of 50s dance and music.