When Caroline blags an invite to her hero Charles Dickens＊s dinner party, William also pretends to be a fan and goes along, too. Andrew Scott plays Dickens brilliantly as a doom-filled fop lapping up compliments while knocking back the sauce. Elsewhere, Florence Nightingale wants the surgeons to clean their instruments as she assists in the case of a woman with a haemorrhoid ※perhaps the size of a Christmas walnut§. Excellent fun. The MasterChef franchise has shown us that cooking well often means a person with sleeve tattoos and a past they＊d rather not talk about perspiring over a sous vide pork loin. This is more of a family affair, however, where the competition element is mainly taking place between Rosemary Shrager and Giorgio Locatelli (who will be the most condescending?). Anyway, first up it＊s the ?10 supper round. Curry or sprout pizza? Well, exactly. In the penultimate episode of this gripping four-parter centred on a nurse masquerading as a doctor, Cath (incoming Doctor Who star Jodie Whittaker) is called back home to be with her dying father, while her dreamboat new boyfriend Dr Andy makes an uncomfortable discovery back in Edinburgh. The confrontation that follows is brilliantly subtle and squirm-worthy. More? A near catastrophe in A&E exposes a shocking truth. Splendidly clammy viewing. ※A history written in blood§ is how Gurinder Chadha＊s relatives describe 1947＊s partition of India, which saw millions of lives uprooted or lost. In this sobering film with decidedly contemporary echoes, the director of Bend It Like Beckham travels from a leafy suburban house in Cambridge (where the name Pakistan was first coined) to Delhi, to learn, as Dr Shashi Tharoor says, how ※the?British sank the ship 每 then swam away§. Final instalment of Professor Richard Clay＊s fascinating three-part search for that state of transcendental perfection, which, despite mountainous evidence to the contrary, some insist remains within reach of human society. In tonight＊s episode, Clay wonders whether the thrills and satisfactions of artistic expression count as a utopia, discussing epiphany and escape with Steve?Reich and A Guy Called Gerald, among others. Another chance to see the remake 每 previously screened on BBC4 in February 每 of the US mini-series that sparked an intense national debate about slavery in 1977. This opening double bill begins in 1767, with proud west African warrior teen Kunta Kinte (rising UK star Malachi Kirby) bushwhacked by slave traders and, after a harrowing Atlantic crossing, sold to a Virginia tobacco baron. Raw and violent, it is an often heartbreaking watch. One of those infuriating shows (see also pretty much every cookery series ever) where a bunch of breezy experts lead you to believe that you, too, can accomplish all manner of actually quite difficult tasks. This week, the team are revamping a living room using different shades and tones of a single colour. Ant Anstead and Clem Green will be demonstrating tie-dye, and Robin Johnson will be making a vase out of paper. You, dear viewer, will be making a mess. (Edward Zwick, 1994) 3.15pm, Sony Movie ChannelAnthony Hopkins＊s patriarchal Montana rancher Colonel Ludlow has three sons. Aidan Quinn is the steady eldest, Henry Thomas the wide-eyed nipper, with Brad Pitt＊s all-American hero in between. All fall for Quinn＊s girl, Susannah (Julia Ormond), but she leans towards Pitt, who nobly heads for the trenches. An enjoyable but soapy romance.(Otto Preminger, 1953) Tuesday, 6am, Movies4MenAnother cynical, borderline-sleazy film noir from the director of Laura and Where the Sidewalk Ends. Jean Simmons stars as Diane Tremayne, the sweetest of femme fatales, whose angelic features conceal a deeply disturbed psyche: unhealthily attached to her father (Herbert Marshall), she plots to murder her stepmother (Barbara O＊Neill) in a contrived car accident. Robert Mitchum is the fascinated, hapless Frank Jessup, drawn into Diane＊s erotic web as family chauffeur and fatally indecisive in exposing her true nature.  4pm, BT Sport 2. The play-off round second-leg match in Kazakhstan.6.30pm, Sky Sports Cricket. Action from the opening quarter-final of the short-form contest. 7.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event. Bramall Lane hosts the former Premier League winners in the second-round match.																																											