hat could be riper for satire than morning television? It＊s not just the highly caffeinated personalities, but the little details 每 the interminably long infomercials, the two-chord muzak looping endlessly between segments, the conveyor belt of experts.The comedians behind Get Krack!n 每 Kate McCartney and Kate McLennan 每 have developed a grudging respect for the genre in the process of lampooning it. It started the minute they first stepped into their regulation TV-host high heels and onto the blisteringly bright set.※Morning TV sets are quite aggressive,§ McCartney explains, ※so ours is like an obstacle course. We made all the steps different sizes. Everything＊s just a bit off. And then there are the outfits we would never wear in real life.§※Shapewear made me so angry all the time,§ McLennan interjects.※Awkward§ has long been the main ingredient of the Kates＊ oeuvre, throughout their combined history of acting, stand-up and writing for TV sketch shows. In particular, they home in on their own awkward attempts to conform to the feminine ideal.Their first real hit was, which clocked up more than 9m views on YouTube. Its premise of two out-of-work actor mates, cobbling together a web-series cooking show, was the perfect vehicle for sending up our obsessions with paleo diets, quitting sugar and the Thermomix.What made The Katering Show all the more fun was that the lines between fact and fiction were blurred. The real-life McCartney and McLennan were making the show on as slender a budget as their fictional counterparts; in fact, the fancy kitchen they filmed in was borrowed via AirBnB. (※Our rating is in the toilet now,§ says McLennan darkly. ※Apparently Tupperware went missing.§)In between bright and breezy cooking instructions, the Kates made plenty of bitter observations on the TV industry that had spat them out. When McLennan pondered the meteoric success of Chris Lilley, it was a jibe at McCartney, who had appeared in The Big Bite with the comedian and failed to reach the same dizzying heights. ※When I saw that line I just sat and stared at it for two minutes,§ McCartney says dryly.The ABC came on board for the second season, hosting it on iView. This ongoing relationship has meant a bigger budget and team for Get Krack!n, as well as a primetime slot. This time, the Kates dramatise their anxiety around getting a bigger profile, through the scenario of scoring a morning TV show.McLennan＊s alter ego, a highly strung overachiever, seems the perfect fit for the breakneck speed of morning TV, but the pressure threatens to send her loopy. By contrast, the fact that their slot is at the humbling hour of 3am (cue hilarious crosses to an empty newsroom chair or entirely dark street-scene window), means that her reliably dour foil, McCartney, is literally falling asleep on the job.The real-life Kates are true to their characters: good mates who occasionally have each other in their sniper sights. When McLennan discusses McCartney＊s relative lack of acting experience, she adds sweetly: ※It works better to have you as a counter to my character, anyway.§※Right, because I have a less impressive range,§ says McCartney flatly.※It＊s more just someone needs to keep it moving and someone has to say the boring bits.§Yet the Kates admire the respectful friendships behind comedy duos such as Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders, and Tina Fey and Amy Poehler.※We check in on each other,§ says McLennan, ※and we don＊t throw each other under the bus.§Back in 2007, McCartney had been working as a background artist at an animation company. The lead project was children＊s show Wakkaville, for which McLennan provided one of the voices. It wasn＊t the greatest introduction. ※In order to animate the film, you have to repeat the dialogue over and over again,§ McCartney recalls. ※She was playing a really annoying kid.§The two resisted corresponding until 2011. ※We had mutual friends and so we had the usual aversion when people said: ＆You two should meet each other＊,§ recalls McLennan.※I remember meeting you in a pub and you weren＊t very nice to me,§ McCartney offers.They caved in after hitting it off on Twitter. ※So we drank a bottle of wine and poured out all these stories about how people had fucked us over for the previous 10 years,§ McLennan says. She＊d just come from a stint on Ben Elton＊s Live from Planet Earth, which was cancelled after three episodes, but knew that she would flourish with her own material 每 if only she could get a platform.They decided they could work together, forming the production company Lead Balloon and, as McCartney says: ※The moment we started to work together, things started happening.§Now both 37, the Kates have a young daughter each. McCartney may deadpan that ※since I had a kid, my heart＊s cracked open and I don＊t know how to close it again§, but motherhood hasn＊t hijacked the jokes. While The Katering Show had a Yummy Mummies episode, they insist that was ※just so we could get that out of the way§.Still, if there＊s an overarching theme in Get Krack!n, it seems to be deconstructing culture＊s dumbing-down of women and encouraging critical thinking. There are rambles about the patriarchy between bouts of sunny presenter-speak, and biting acknowledgement that this is a world in which it＊s OK for the Daily Mail to publish articles .Get Krack!n has its own experts 每 or ※Kracksperts§ 每 extolling the virtues of, say, turmeric, with zero scientific evidence, and guest cameos include Sam Neill, Kat Stewart and Rove McManus. The real Kates＊ concerns about world affairs also seep into the picture, with visual gags as well as verbal, such as a doomsday clock hanging beneath clocks showing London, LA and Tokyo time on the studio wall.※We wanted to question why people are distracting themselves with rubbish,§ McLennan says, ※although ＃ every day we do look at the call sheet and think, ah great, there＊s a wombat in today§.It＊s difficult to know where the Kates＊ meta take on the industry will transport them next. Reality TV hosts? The doyennes of current affairs?※At least we＊re not writing from the perspective of not being able to pay our car registration at the moment,§ says McLennan with relief.※At the ,§ says McCartney.   premieres on ABC 1 on 30 August at 9:30pm.																																											