he gaunt and blackened ruin of , where 80 people died in the fire of 14 June, could be seen from many places on the route of the annual Notting Hill carnival parade in London on Sunday. In the middle of the chaotic, noisy hedonism of , hundreds of volunteers were on the streets from soon after dawn till long after dusk, urging the revellers to wear something green as a mark of  for those who died and the hundreds made homeless. The ragged and inspiring response to the Grenfell tragedy in the streets of north Kensington gives us a glimpse of what society really means in practice. It is profoundly disconnected from conventional politics and all the better for that.Conventional politics failed the tower before the blaze and in the chaotic, shameful  as well. Conventional politics represented the tyranny of the smug, the people for whom house prices were a store of wealth and pensions, not an insuperable barrier to a life a little less insecure. Conventional politics tried to lock out the angry survivors from council meetings, and had for years paid huge salaries to  who failed completely when the hour of crisis came. Many were people who seemed to believe in nothing much except self-advancement according to the rules.The prayers, the songs, the release of doves and the conscription of the colour green to the cause all mark a different kind of politics, one conducted on the basis of emotion and a knowledge of injustice. The spine of this kind of resistance was religious. Whatever some may think of their beliefs 每 whatever they may think of each other＊s beliefs 每 it was the churches and the mosques of the surrounding communities that first stepped up and have continued with efficient, self-sacrificial zeal to help their neighbours. The families of Grenfell seem to have trusted their religious representatives far more than they trusted their political ones 每 and who can blame them?Nor can any one party or leader claim their allegiance now. It would certainly have to be earned. Faith groups and other community-based organisations can claim it because they are, after all, entirely voluntary. Those that no one believes in just wither away as the mass membership of political parties once did. Unlike the clicktivism of internet-based movements, the community organisations, faith-based and otherwise, have earned their legitimacy methodically and over time. They did not abandon the poor just because there were no votes in them.In an almost forgotten time before austerity,  talked up the idea of the big society. That was widely, and as it turned out rightly, derided as a way of coating with nostalgia the decay of the welfare state. Yet what we have seen in and around the tower provides a glimpse of what the big society might actually mean. It is an awkward beast to tame. It can＊t do without government. It can＊t replace conventional politics entirely, but it doesn＊t do what the government wants. It does not have leaders with whom deals can be struck, except in small piecemeal ways. A society that takes account of the marginalised and angry will not be miraculously delivered from conflict as a result. But it will be fairer, more just and less uneasy with itself. That 每 as well as all the concrete help that still is needed 每 would be something worth growing from the ashes.																																											