wo weeks after my 20th birthday I married a man   a boy, really   who was a little older than me. We would not be married for very long of course, but I didn t know that then. I didn t even suspect it . I felt for him the kind of love where it seemed the very beat of my heart stopped when he was around. I couldn t sleep, I didn t eat. Today, though, when people ask why I married so young, I struggle to answer. Usually I say:  That was just what you did. That was just what you did,  is my feeble explanation for most of the big decisions of my late teens and 20s. At 18, I left home and worked full-time in a mail room and thought I was blessed   as a child, I d imagined I would be a barmaid. I bought my first house at 23, with my then-boyfriend. No travel, anywhere. Limited options and low expectations go some way to explain the exhilaration and relief I ve found in ageing. Exhilaration, because I can hardly believe my good fortune. I m still alive, somehow, and healthy. Is this really my job? My beautiful house, my wonderful husband, my very own dog? And relief, because those grinding years of poverty and worry and vulnerability are over and I stand now, clear-eyed, on the other side. Being 20 again, in a world of inter-generational tension, diminishing resources and boundless yet unsatisfying choices, would be a kind of nightmare.Unpicking this feeling is why I love the work of Briohny Doyle.Doyle s brilliant non-fiction book Adult Fantasy, published this year, asks the question: what does it mean to be an adult, right now? Do the priorities of previous generations   marriage, children, mortgages, education   even rate in a world facing climate catastrophe? Those of us who own homes are quick to respond to millennial concerns as though we re Monty Python s Four Yorkshiremen:  We lived for three months in a brown paper bag in a septic tank.  Instead, the question should be: if someone in their 20s now chose to make the same sacrifices as we did, would they achieve the same result? The answer, by all accounts, is no.Yes, this is the conversation that launched a thousand avocado toast jokes. In Doyle s hands, though, it s nuanced and engrossing   and it s not just about our current intergenerational social context. In essence, all good writing asks: How should I live? Doyle s work is important because this question must be continually asked and continually answered, throughout all of our lives   otherwise we re prey to the gasping, sitting-up-in-bed existential crisis and resultant sports cars and tummy tucks, broken marriages and burned bridges. That s what significant birthdays are for, and funerals of parents and dear friends, and those rare moments we stand, mid-point, and see our lives clearly both behind and in front of us. Our past pattern of failures and future logical extrapolations along a bone-wearying railway track of years. A writer who asks questions like these must get her own hands dirty, and there are intimate parts of Doyle s life exposed here. Adult Fantasy begins with Doyle s third-life crisis and her awareness that she s achieved none of the traditional markers of adulthood. Along the way, she meets with young adults with such a variety of lifestyles and priorities it almost seems as though the very term  millennials , and the way we bandy it about as shorthand for  self-absorbed and entitled , is like any other form of generalisation: lazy and stupid. (Imagine.) She s intrepid and brutal, but only towards herself. She spills her doubt and angst yet she sallies onward, never judging or whining, always entertaining, open-hearted and open-minded.In The Island Will Sink, her 2016 debut cli-fi novel, she s more playful, though still wry and blackly humorous. Ostensibly it s the story of Max Galleon   a husband, father and maker of blockbuster disaster movies   and his life as the world careens toward its conclusion. It s equally a field for her ideas to play out: the way technology and digital projections replace both genuine relationships and an intrinsic sense of self; the nature of memory and reality; and even our pop culture obsession with all things apocalyptic and the way this engagement substitutes for global action on the coming real thing.One of her many perfect details is Pow-Wow the Power Saving Panda, whose holographic image pops up everywhere and becomes angry or teary if the shower runs too long or the recycling is neglected. Orwell meets Disney; even our good intentions are used to manipulate us.Recent government policy toward millennials seems too malevolent to be real. In 2015 treasurer Joe Hockey advised that, if they wanted to buy a house, . But if they agree, and go to university, they re left with a debt of tens of thousands of dollars to be repaid at a lower earning threshold (changes legislated by, mostly, men who ve benefitted from their own Whitlam-era free education). the young people think.  So they work part-time, making coffee and clearing plates, in shops and behind bars. says the government. We re  and giving the money to our rich mates in . It s as if these clowns have a strategic goal to Make Australia Dumb Again.At the same time, we re using up resources like drunks locked in a cellar, swigging as fast as we can with both hands and with one eye on the door. We think we are somehow exempt from this basic law of existence: an ever-growing colony consuming and excreting on a finite petri dish will eventually drown in its own shit.Doyle s two explorations, non-fiction and fiction, are two sides of the same coin. Our lack of basic literacy in both science and media studies has lead us here. The fact that we can t tell real news from fake lies at the feet of our disdain for the humanities. If anything, her novel is the more important because it s wonderful storytelling and provides a philosophical and emotional context to understand the science.  If I were a millennial, I d be fucking furious. Doyle, by contrast, is smart and compassionate enough to look beyond the personal to the systemic. Look at the world we re bequeathing them. If you re a millennial, or you love one, or you hope to live long enough to see the world governed by them, you should be reading Briohny Doyle. 																																											