?The shortcomings of the English language are never more apparent than when it is used to translate Indigenous Australian beliefs, customs and culture?. So it follows ?that English-style museums   which is to say, most Australian ones   also often fall short?.Museums of bricks and mortar are largely antithetical to Aboriginal repositories of material and lived culture   community, country, story (in every form) and memory.How could a museum with walls and windows and display cases even contemplate an exhibition about something as central to 60,000-plus years of Indigenous life on this continent as  songlines    , which references paths of Indigenous knowledge and creation history that crisscross land, heaven and water? Many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders have long embraced Chatwin s  songlines  (at least the word, if not his 1987 novel The Songlines). They have claimed it to describe what they also know to be  tracks or dreaming paths   cultural, political, spiritual, ecological, geographical, historical (and so very much more) wisdom that is etched for them in the land.Songlines embody the stories of the ancestors  creation of country itself. They are a belief system. But they are also akin to maps   stories about the land that, understood, spoken or sung, can be used to navigate on foot or even by vehicle. Given that this continent s Indigenous populations represent the oldest continuous civilisations on earth, the songlines can even be seen as foundation stories of the cosmos.?Now the National Museum of Australia, itself situated on an ancient corroboree ground through which runs a dreaming track, is explaining in an exhibition      that which words have failed. The verdict: a triumph of 21st century museology that the world deserves to see. It uses few English words and as many Indigenous. It is visual and experiential, featuring more than 100 paintings, photographs and other artworks, maps, video installations and a quite remarkable immersive six-metre multimedia  DomeLab  to tell the creationist story of the seven sisters as it appears in sections of five vast western and central desert songlines. It tells this story the way the people to whom it belongs   of the Martu, Ngaanyatjarra and APY (Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjara) lands   understand it.The Seven Sisters is a metaphor and an allegory, a story of traditional laws that imparts ways to live today. It incorporates sexual longing, danger, deception, metamorphosis, temptation and an epic battle between good and evil, as the lustful sorcerer Wati Nyiru or Yurla chases and tries to seduce the sisters. He s a  shape-shifter , this demon; he becomes a tree to tempt them with shade, and a snake who they can kill and eat. The story has its variations from songline to songline, country to country.The songline goes subterranean in places, as the women dive into a waterhole to escape Wati Nyiru. They have other tricks too. They can fly. And so, as he chases them they take off from the Earth (woven images of the women soar over the exhibition) and become one with the Orion constellation and Pleiades star cluster.You can navigate parts of the central and western deserts using those stars, walk from waterhole to waterhole where the sisters submerged and emerged ... but only if you know the songline. There is another way of thinking about it: the women created the landmarks   the boulders and the trees, the hillocks and the waterholes   that they traversed on their chase. On other songlines the country over, creationist animals   emus, kangaroos, snakes   made the land.This exhibition is as breathtaking, as wondrous, as it is at times overwhelming and confounding. As you walk around it, stretch out in the dome   which includes images of 3,500-year-old rock art about the seven sisters from Cave Hill in South Australia   and examine the art, you might think you know precisely what a songline, a dreaming or churinga track, is.But then you ll try to explain it in English to the person next to you and the odds are you ll fall short.Yes, the songlines are mind-blowing for their multi-layered, literal and allegorical meanings, and the challenges they pose to western thought constructs and linear notions of time. Just as they are also profoundly beautiful for the purity of the beliefs and the spiritual truths that underpin them. This exhibition celebrates Indigenous culture and belief, endurance and wisdom in a way I ve not hitherto experienced in a cultural collecting institution. It has immeasurably raised the international standard for any museum wanting to tell Indigenous stories (take note ).Significantly, this is not a top-down exhibition. Its genesis lies in a request in 2010 from Anangu elders of the APY lands who, concerned that the Seven Sisters story would be lost to new Indigenous generations, asked the museum to help track the songlines and preserve the knowledge. The museum s chief Indigenous curator and adviser,  has worked collaboratively with a team of elders from the lands over the past seven years to mount the exhibition and to help track the songlines visually, performatively, archaeologically and ecologically. The artworks created for the exhibition will be incorporated into the museum s national collection.Neale, of Aboriginal/Irish heritage, reckons the songlines are a  master archive   and they really are given that they record 60,000 or more years of experience of the oldest continuous civilisation ... they record deep cultural and geographic and all sort of other knowledge in the land and then transmit it .She continues:  I ve thought about it a lot and at their simplest, the songlines are corridors or pathways of knowledge embedded in the land, that crisscross this country and which have been laid down over the millennia. Rene Kulitja, a senior artist from Mutitjulu who sings and dances the Seven Sisters story, smiles and nods when I ask if this exhibition will help non-Indigenous people understand what songlines are. When I was a schoolgirl, maybe 13, in 1970 or 1971, an old lady taught me the Seven Sisters,  she says.  I understand it. It s important. It s our law. Every single day after school I would sing and dance the Seven Sisters. Now you can see it here too. This exhibition focuses on sections of only five songlines that deal with the same story. There are thousands of others the length and breadth of the country, extending above and below us and into the sea. And so this exhibition intrigues and impels you to ask big existential questions and, naturally, to scrutinise ever harder Australia s non-Indigenous creationist myths around foreign wars, continental invasion, dispossession and white settlement. It is a celebration of the wonders of this remarkable country that will introduce new generations of Indigenous and other Australians to a continental identity that stretches tens of thousands of years beyond 1770 or 1788.It may well send a new legion of readers the way of Chatwin, whose book, seminal though it remains, could have benefited from much in this exhibition. But he remains a trail-blazer, an Englishman engaging with the dreaming tracks that so much of Australia could not have cared less about just a few decades ago.Not least, Tracking the Seven Sisters puts into sharp relief recent historical spats, over statues for example, and reinforces the truth that those who were here first seeded the land with story long, long, long before the British arrived with parchment and quill to tell so many other tales.																																											