y pre-school son and I were snuggled up, reading, when it happened for the third time. I had mentioned that our new book was written by the same author as one of his old favourites. The author was a woman and my son frowned:  But that s not usual, is it?  he asked.  I mean, for a woman to write books? I was disconcerted. I had been prepared for all sorts of strange new opinions when he started reception,but this was the third time he had come out with sexist guff. How had he absorbed these sorts of ideas in his cosseted, pre-school world?More to the point, girls now outperform boys in school and further education. If my son was going to start his school life with a tendency to underestimate girls, might that extend to him putting down their willingness to work hard? Might he also learn to despise the abilities traditionally considered to be feminine, such as cooperation, empathy and diligence, which are increasingly valued in the modern-day workplace   and which feature heavily in those jobs thought to be safest from the advance of automation?Before having children, I assumed it was daughters, rather than sons, who required help to avoid the elephant traps of gender-based partiality and prejudice that the world would strew in their path. It wasn t until I had first a boy and then a girl, that I realised reality is more complex. I still twitch with horror at the proliferation of girls dressed permanently in billowing pink princess dresses   my daughter almost exclusively wears her brother s castoffs   but the truth is that despite their crinolines and sparkly tiaras, these princess-wannabes rampage over bouncy castles and hurtle down the steepest slides in the playgrounds just as enthusiastically as their male peers.As a friend of mine said recently, gazing out over a back garden strewn with saccharine playthings.  I ve given up the fight against pink. I ve decided it doesn t matter: my daughters are still going to be lawyers and doctors, they re just going to collect their degrees wearing pink dresses. Boys, though, are another story. The gap in attainment between boys and girls in the UK is stark and starts young. At key stage 2, the gap is six percentage points. For GCSEs, the gap for five A*-C grades, including English and maths, is  in England, and more than seven in the other three home nations.The impact of this underachievement by boys is direct. Annually,  fewer young men than young women become apprentices and  fewer go to university   460,000 fewer over the past decade   an underachievement that has been called a . More  than women are not in education, employment or training. Fewer men are entering nearly all of the professions, and between the ages of 22 and 29, , in both full-time and part-time roles.There are, of course, a multitude of ways in which parents can try to prevent their sons sliding into this slipstream. But all too soon, our influence is first diluted, then trumped by our children s peers. Nevertheless, I m a strong believer in the power of books to nuzzle deep into children s heads in a way that parents and peers cannot, providing the blueprint for what is right and wrong, what is beautiful and ugly, what is attainable and what is out of bounds. Books bestow a neutral and absolute authority as to the way life is, can be and should be lived.I have bought books to prepare my son for everything significant he has ever experienced, from his first visit to the dentist to the arrival of his baby sister. I bought creepy-monster books to satisfy his craving to be scared   and nice-monster books when that plan proved a bit too successful. I ve bought culturally diverse books to go some way to ameliorating the predominantly white circles he moves in.So I had already tried   and failed   to find age-appropriate, literary ripostes to the first of his earlier two sexist pronouncements:  Queens aren t powerful,  he announced, when we were reading about the Tudors.  They just look out of windows.  Annoyingly, according to the fictional world of literature for the very young, I found this is true: at their best, queens despair over their messy princesses but, mostly, they play a silent and usually fretful, second fiddle to the king.My son s second declaration, however, totally blindsided me. When reading a book that featured a girl winning a running race, he protested that it wasn t true.  Girls can t run fast,  he insisted. Coming as it did just after a sports day at his nursery in which he had been beaten by virtually every girl in his class   and from a child whose mother is more physically boisterous than his father   this was quite an exercise in prejudice trumping reality.I determined to stock up on books that would counter his  alternative facts : books that showed cool-yet-ambitious boys who worked hard to achieve their dream   whether that be dragon-catching, alien-befriending or pirate-thwarting   alongside strong, courageous, funny, clever peers who just happened to be girls.This proved harder than I expected. According to a study co-authored by Professor Janice McCabe, from Florida State University, . While of , 53 featured female characters who didn t even speak. It is not limited to books: across children s media, only  compared with 80.5% of male characters.Nevertheless, with a bit of effort, I found a rich seam of fantastic books featuring girl protagonists who were courageous and scrappy, ingenious and fallible. As great as these books are, however, their central character almost always has her adventures on her own or with other girls. What has been surprisingly difficult to find are books where the genders play together, without the boys dominating, outnumbering or otherwise overshadowing the girls.Referring to her study on the dearth of female protagonists in children s books, McCabe said:  Such findings are significant. It is a trend of symbolic annihilation of females in children s literature, which has implications for children s understandings of gender. McCabe was talking in the context of girls when she said this, and their incipient feelings of gender-based inferiority. But what about the impact on boys who read exclusively about worlds where girls are  annihilated  or dominated? ,  I m glad we ve begun to raise our daughters more like our sons, but it will never work until we raise our sons more like our daughters. If we want to create an equitable society in which everyone can thrive, we need to give boys more choices. Letting them develop a sense of gender-dictated birthright that will be whisked away from under their noses by high-achieving girls, as surely as the tortoise triumphed over the hare, is a recipe for resentment between the sexes.Nan Froman is a senior editor at Groundwood Books, an independent children s publisher committed to publishing books that are difficult or potentially controversial. She thinks  gender equality in children s books is very much on people s radars  but acknowledges an issue with demand.  Parents of daughters may more actively seek out books that encourage female empowerment [rather than gender equality] and perhaps that is just a reflection of where we have come from as a society,  she says. is tackling the issue head on. It will shortly publish a picture book    by Jean E Pendziwol   featuring two siblings who can be  read  as being of any gender the reader wishes to attribute to them. Also on Groundwood s list is , about a little boy who likes to wear the dress in the dressing-up box at school. But Froman admits,  Social justice is one of the touchstones at Groundwood, so the kinds of authors we attract and the manuscripts we are drawn to probably tend to be conscious of gender equality. This is something we are aware of in the editing and illustrating process. But the larger publishing houses, sadly, are a different matter. A senior editor at one, who preferred not to be identified, said,  Parents of daughters buy books that encourage female empowerment but neither they, nor the parents of boys think it s a priority to buy books that focus on gender equality.  She also suggests there is an assumption among some publishers that it is harder work to get boys reading. Their solution, she said, is to commission and prioritise books aimed at boys that focus on simple, white-knuckle activity and excitement, rather than risk losing their audiences for the sake of a few mildly challenging characters and friendships.But the biggest reason for the dearth in books showing girls and boys as equal is that there is no money in it.  Publishers need a clear financial incentive to change their juggernaut-like direction of travel,  she says.  Until there s a loud and clear call for books that encourage boys to think it s cool to interact with their hardworking, high-achieving female peers   like there was a call for books featuring strong female protagonists   I m afraid they re not going to happen. A book that eschews words for imagination-stimulating pictures: a storm-wrecked, seashore adventure between a girl and a boy.An ebullient book in which children revel in opposites as they jump in a pond, enjoy a picnic or run with a kite, all with a rollicking band of animals in tow.These books show a boy playing with not just one girl as an equal, but having a great time by mucking in with a group of them.A friendship between a quiet boy   shunned by schoolmates on account of his family, which includes rattlesnake tamers and shape-shifters   and a girl, which celebrates difference and kindness.An interactive adventure in which readers choose what happens every few pages. It features a big sister ingeniously and bravely guiding her little brother through a ghoul-strewn valley.Motherless sisters romp through an old-fashioned summer holiday, befriending a local boy whom they decide to save from being sent to military school.Sleuthing friends Emily and James must solve the codes hidden in a trail of books, with each hidden book triggering a fire. They work together to uncover the arsonist.