 Mental health is poorly enough understood today, so how did people deal with psychological disorders before we even had the language to identify such conditions? That s the central question in , which follows Senua, a Pict woman, as she embarks on a quest to rescue a loved one from the Norse underworld.The mythology of gods and demons fits too easily with Senua s troubled perceptions and the game does an exceptional job of conveying that to the player, questioning the legitimacy of what s happening. Push deeper into this dark but stunningly realised world and the accompaniment is one of disembodied voices chattering near constantly, while environmental puzzles where runes are matched to open pathways could just as easily be explained as seeing things.Senua is no pitiable madwoman, though, and with solid combat mechanics, she stands her ground, even though her enemies may be but phantasms of her mind. While overly linear at times, this remains a complex and thought-provoking masterpiece.  Finnish game developer  has made a name for itself crafting masterful modern interpretations of classic arcade forms, reinterpreting the likes of  and  with great skill and affection for the form. With its latest, , the team have focused on the 2D run n gun template. Which makes for fast-paced platform jumping while letting rip with streams of firepower as enemies clutter the screen. does manage to do an awful lot of things right. It plays with great flow and momentum. Sessions build in pace and energy naturally and gracefully, making for a remarkably exciting experience. There is, however, a disconnect between the title s velocity and the intricacy of gameplay mechanics. Shooting, unleashing special attacks, altering level scenery and triggering bombs can feel a little too elaborate relative to the pure arcade pacing and, as such, what could be a finely crafted sleek affair occasionally feels ungainly.Housemarque s effort will please genre devotees, but overall this is not the most refined work by a studio that has so often delivered truly brilliant experiences.  Released on PS4, Xbox One and PC in March,  arrives on Switch, once again drawing on Nordic folklore to tell the story of a young boy, Otto, and his troll friend. Or, rather, it would if it were vaguely playable.Poorly received on other formats, the intervening months (of what one would presume to be additional development time) have done the Switch version no favours. Characters and objects are more jagged than you d expect on the original , let alone a 2017 console, while actually attempting to play reveals a frame rate of what feels like four per second, an unforgivably jarring experience even if everything weren t offensively low resolution.There is the heart of an interesting -esque adventure game here, as Otto and Troll use their singular skills to traverse the Scandinavian wilderness. Unfortunately, this is such a terribly optimised, blatantly rushed and ultimately unplayable mess that no one will ever know. 																																											