You know it when you see it. Blunt cliff-faces of tiny square windows, piled as high as regulations allow, like stacks of construction-site cabins the builders forgot to remove. Sometimes topped with a jaunty quiff, or dressed in a lurid harlequin costume as if to scream  Youth! : these goliaths are sprouting across Britain, lumbering into its towns and cities like container ships run aground.This urban disease of mean-minded, pile-em-high cells is not a new government prison programme, but actually purpose-built student accommodation (PBSA). It is one of the most lucrative sectors in the UK property industry, currently worth ?46bn, with developments completed this year expected to total a record ?4.7bn. But is it time to stop this tide of tacky tombstones? Are they spoiling our built environment?Hardly a year goes by without a slab of PBSA featuring on the  for the ugliest UK building. This year it was the turn of a , designed by Cooley Architects for Unite, the biggest student housing provider in the country. It boasted bulky grey rectangular blocks piled up to 24 storeys, jollied up with a scattergun splurge of yellow and turquoise cladding. Its cladding system failed fire safety tests in July, following the Grenfell Tower disaster   as if it wasn t obvious enough before that wrapping towers in foil-coated plastic wasn t a great idea. The cladding on five more of Unite s brand new blocks have also failed the test, sending alarm bells through the sector and revealing construction quality to be far from top of the industry s priorities. Standards of student accommodation caught the headlines in 2013, when a block of flats for University College London on Caledonian Road , for placing a 350-bedroom hulk behind the retained brick facade of a Victorian warehouse, without even caring that the windows lined up. The idea that students should be expected to look out on to a brick wall, less than a metre away, isn t unique, though: they have the same pleasure at the . The developers can get away with such things, because student housing doesn t officially classify as housing. It falls into the murky category of  sui generis  (Latin for  of its own kind ). As it falls outside a specific use class, it doesn t have to adhere to the . Local authorities differ in the their approaches, but student accommodation is usually either treated as a hotel (C1) or residential institution (C2), the same category as care homes, hospitals and boarding schools. Due to their limited occupation, these building types are immune from many of the codes that govern residential dwellings   from space standards to daylight and acoustics. At the same time, crucially, the developer is exempt from providing any contribution towards affordable housing.So it s not hard to see why PBSA is such a booming industry: you can build tiny bedrooms with minuscule windows, use cheaper materials, and cram many more units on to a site, with no need to provide parking or private amenity space. Unlike housing, the flats don t have to be individually marketed, there s a ready supply of students, and you only have to please the customer for three or four years. Local authorities are usually only too happy to encourage the march of new student flats, given that they take pressure off existing local housing stock, while universities are over the moon, as it means they don t have to spend precious capital budgets on building their own accommodation. It is the perfect storm, with no party to stand in the way.The growth is also being fuelled by some of the most powerful backers in the world. Since the slowdown in the high-end residential market, the kinds of overseas investors who were originally pumping their hot cash into the super-prime apartment bubble are now funnelling it . It may seem unlikely, but these grim tankers of rabbit-hutch digs are where the sovereign wealth funds and ultra high-net-worth individuals are now choosing to park their capital.According to Savills, the proportion of international investment flowing into the market has almost , with ?1.2bn coming from Singapore alone in 2016. Around 25,000 new units have been completed for the start of this academic year, while a further 14,000 are already under construction for next year, with developers sniffing around the  emerging markets  of Bath, Canterbury and Cardiff, now that Liverpool, Manchester and Leeds have reached saturation point. Across the country, sites that were originally allocated for housing are finding themselves sprouting blocks of student flats, as they represent a more  viable  proposition for a quick return. In central London alone, there are around 4,000 student rooms under construction, with over 8,000 more with consent or in planning.An annual conference in Covent Garden , but journalists are denied entry because, said a spokesman,  people can talk more openly without the glaring eyes of the press . If you attended, you would have discovered that most of these bleak vertical student storage units are now described as  luxury : much of the discussion focused on what facilities the well-heeled international students are now demanding.Given the competitive nature of the market, and the kind of returns investors are expecting, developers are being forced to compete with ever more elaborate offers, stuffing bedrooms with gadgets and applying a thin veneer of  luxury living  to their cheaply-built shells; 40-inch smart televisions are standard, along with 24-hour concierge, gym, swimming pool and omnipresent CCTV coverage. Offering a full lifestyle experience, operators even lay on  curated  programmes of events. Vita, one of the higher-end brands, organises sponsored fashion shows, gaming nights and cocktail-making classes in their communal  . And the price for a premium room in their new Circle Square development in Manchester? ?388 per week. Meanwhile, in London, rooms in the top-end blocks go for ?25,000 a year.In a way, it s hard not to pity the poor international student cosseted up in their luxury ensuite cocoon, who will never know the joys of wondering which housemate left the mouldy bag of salad in the shared fridge, or whose turn it is to clean out the matted bathroom plughole. As a Chinese sales assistant from Vita s Manchester showroom proudly tells me:  Everything is provided on site for your convenience, 24 hours a day, from study space to social life, so you never have to leave.  These buildings aren t just destroying our cities   they re destroying the very experience of being a student.																																											