You ve read the books, you ve seen the movies, you ve bought the merch, now see the considerably less interesting life story of the writer behind   You could insert pretty much any literary classic next and chances are a prestige biopic has been made about the author. In recent years, we ve had , ,  and . We ve even had Lifetime s predictably shonky .You can see the appeal of literary biopics. They come with built-in brand recognition, an established fanbase and a vague lustre of highbrow respectability and awards-friendliness (as with ). They are also another excuse to revisit historic Britain at its most jolly decent and imperially mighty, which never hurts. But invariably these biopics end up as heavily fictionalised tales of imagination triumphing over personal adversity, dutifully ticking off the events that inspired the fiction. All the better if they re a children s author since you can incorporate a cute kid and jazz up the visuals with flights of fantasy.That s pretty much what we get with the imminent Goodbye Christopher Robin, which stars  as AA Milne, returning from the first world war and working his traumas into therapeutic ursine whimsy. It promises to be a similar story with the , a man whose decades at an Oxford writing desk were somewhat at odds with his Middle-earth sagas in the excitement stakes. For all their testaments to the power of the imagination, these movies often represent the opposite: the scraping of the barrel of English literature. Like the empire, our stories once held sway over the world, but they ve now been adapted and reinterpreted so many times we re sick of hearing them.Fewer more so than Winnie the Pooh. After it acquired the rights in the 1960s, Disney squeezed as much honey as possible out of poor Pooh, via scores of movies, TV shows, cuddly toys, lunchboxes   you name it. All this teed up a  which got so toxic that people talked about  the curse of Pooh . Family feuds, corporate skulduggery, soft toys coming to life: forget sentimental period drama, Winnie the Pooh has all the makings of a juicy horror film. Now  the movie I want to see.																																											