 We will not die secret deaths anymore. We will be citizens. The time has come. The world only spins forward. These are the words of , in his play Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes. Kushner speaks them by way of the play s main character, Prior Walter: a gay cisgendered man living with HIV in a time when those three letters almost certainly meant Aids. Meant death.Of all the moments that make up the eight hours of Angels in America, those 20 words get to the politicised, pointy end of the struggle gay men endured during the western Aids crisis.While more recent collective experiences, like a postal survey on marriage rights, seems more present and urgent for Australian LGBT community, HIV/Aids is by no means over. Globally, one million people each year still die of Aids-related causes and, for the tens of thousands of gay and bisexual men living with or at risk of contracting HIV in Australia, the stigma of the virus still hangs over our collective experience.And, after many years of artistic silence around the experiences of gay men and HIV/Aids, audiences have been revisiting that time across stages and screens.In 2015, Australian actor, writer and activist Timothy Conigrave s 1995 Aids memoir, , was turned into a film, based on the wildly successful 2006 play by Tommy Murphy. In the past few years, there has also been documentaries and performance works about the Aids crisis, including the Australian offerings  and . And, following , another opened last week in Melbourne.With the spectre of Aids long since replaced by the realities of long-term living with HIV, at least among gay communities in the western world, one may question why we continually look back to a time in which many of us were dying and most of us were terrified. Has our community not moved on to other, more pressing issues?Holding the Man s writer for the stage and screen, Tommy Murphy, recalls that question of relevance being asked of him back when the play made its debut in late 2006. I recall there was some doubt, when we wrote the play, about whether people would be interested in looking back at the epidemic,  he says.  It was even suggested that those stories had been told enough. The response to the play told us otherwise. Holding the Man is universal in its tale of love against all odds, whereas Angels in America may better be described as  timeless    perhaps odd, given its numerous and specific political references to Reagan and the Cold War. For Gary Abrahams, director of the upcoming Melbourne production of Angels, the play goes beyond the spectre of . It s not just an Aids play,  he says.  It uses HIV as a catalyst for something much larger   to talk about world politics. It s a philosophical play, it s an ideological play. Angels in America won the Pulitzer prize for drama in 1993, the year it opened on Broadway. It also won numerous Tony awards and is routinely described as one of the best pieces of western drama to emerge from the 20th century. Kushner s writing is relentless   as funny as it angry, speaking to themes beyond the Aids crisis that was gripping America and the rest of the world. But it is worthwhile interrogating why contemporary artists wishing to explore HIV/Aids narratives seem so intent on looking back, instead of to the very urgent stories on either side of them. Very, very few of the people dying of Aids-related causes today are white gay men living in New York, San Francisco, or Sydney; the vast majority are in . Where are their stories?In their forthcoming book, Viral Dramaturgies: HIV and Aids in Performance in the Twenty-First Century, Drs Alyson Campbell and Dirk Gindt refer to this era of Aids sentimentality on stage and screen as  a paradoxical combination of a simultaneous cultural amnesia and nostalgia. The problem, they argue, is that HIV/Aids-related artwork by  gay white male urban artists  is continually revised and revisited   repeatedly celebrated, in other words   while the creative contributions of other communities equally affected by HIV/Aids are overlooked, changing the way these cultural histories are written. But Campbell and Gindt also argue that these works can counter nostalgia  through a genuine engagement with the relationship between past and present .Were you to write the story of Aids in 2017, it would almost certainly not have a white gay man at its centre. Were you to write the story of white gay men in 2017, it would more likely be something akin to Four Weddings, minus the Funeral. Angels is a tale of all the  sex, death, horror shit  that Aids represented, as Conigrave describes the epidemic in Holding the Man. While some of us may have moved on from that time, there is still much its stories can teach us.For Angels director Abrahams, the play is that necessary bridge between the past and the present. While the gay men who survived the Aids crisis may be flocking to these nostalgic offerings, Abrahams also observes a sizeable number of  post-Aids  gay men who seem unwilling to look back on that time and who even judge it harshly as being too radical and oversexualised. This is a sticking point between  radical  and  respectable  members of the LGBT [for consistency] community: that to convince the general public that we deserve the same rights, we must put forward a sanitised, consumable version of queer identity. There is as much tension between the arguments for and against this position as there was when Kushner wrote his play. The lengthy dialogue between his characters on this topic is not unlike the seemingly endless comment threads now found online (albeit far better written and much more entertaining). We are still fighting for equal rights as citizens but in recent years the warfare has been as much internal as external.In recent weeks, however, we have seen worrying propaganda from opponents of same-sex marriage, alluding to HIV/Aids as  proof  that gay men are somehow undeserving of equal rights, often in the context of associating it with our presumed abilities as parents   such as a poster featuring illustrations of gay men literally stamped with the bio-hazard symbol, towering above their unhappy children, or a bilingual pamphlet that was delivered to homes in the Chinese-Australian community urging people to vote  no  in the postal survey because gay men are one of the  main source of HIV/Aids . In this current era of political heat around LGBT identities and rights, every aspect of our community is under scrutiny. This current moment in Australian queer history suggests it is a time to unite once more, to put aside factional politics in the face of a larger, external threat. It was the Aids crisis that taught many gay men of that era, and their allies, how to stand up, be visible and fight. Abrahams speaks to the galvanisation that happened around HIV and how it has shaped us as a political and social movement. I wonder if we would have advanced as far without it.    																																											