A theatre company says it  will not be silenced  after members of the cast, crew and audience attending a play about a gay couple had their tyres slashed.At least 12 people had their tyres punctured or slashed at Lane Cove  Company s penultimate performance of Holding the Man on Saturday. This month posters for the play were were ripped down.The production is based on Timothy Conigrave s 1995 autobiographical book about his 15-year relationship with John Caleo.Lochie Beh, president of the theatre company, said:  In today s society and especially in the Lane Cove community this behaviour needs to be condemned. Whether one supports the content of the play we are producing or not, this behaviour is unacceptable. Having our posters torn down is one thing, but being targeted by deliberate vandalism is quite another. Not only were members of the audience targeted but some of these members travelled from interstate to see the show and had to then find accommodation for the evening, after midnight, after they had tried every avenue to repair the tyres.Beh said he could only assume the latest attack is some sort a hate crime.  We realise that the play has a little bit of controversy to it but we ve not had anybody that s actually come forward to say we are not happy about you putting on this show,  he said.  We can only feel like we are being attacked for a reason that we re actually unsure of. The theatre company said in a statement:  There is no doubt that the whole  and  is fuelling the flames of hatred and making people take stands.  to contribute to the repairs and emergency accommodation for those hit by the attack. Any extra money raised will be donated to  to support the LGBTQI community. The company hasn t had any other trouble in its 22 years of performances, according to Beh.  We re an amateur theatre company that tells stories so for us to have such controversy surrounding a play   it s just astonishing. He said the cast and crew were feeling  disappointed  and  hurt  but were maintaining positivity for Sunday s final performance.The New South Wales Liberal MP Trent Zimmerman, who attended the play s opening night, said the  hateful attacks  were  disgraceful  and should be condemned.  It s an appalling attack on basically a local amateur theatre group who are going about their normal business of putting on a show,  Zimmerman told Sky News. To have the tyres of patrons and the crews slashed is just completely unacceptable and not something we should be tolerating in Australian society. 																																											