 ballet that takes the Holocaust as its subject is likely to be controversial, and Northern Ballet s , choreographed by Daniel de Andrade after  has had mixed reviews since its launch earlier this year. Boyne s book, now a school set text, tells of the friendship between Shmuel, a young Jewish inmate of Auschwitz, and Bruno, son of the camp s commandant. Despite the historical implausibility of this scenario, the novel has become a publishing phenomenon, and last Thursday s matinee audience, which included many young people, gave the ballet an enthusiastic reception. Flawed or not, Boyne s account is the portal through which a new generation is encountering the Shoah.Technically speaking, this is a well-crafted and strongly performed piece. Matthew Koon, if rather too relentlessly upbeat, gives a clean-limbed account of himself as the naive Bruno. As Shmuel, Filippo de Vilio is poignant and expressive. Of the Nazis, Sean Bates displays a silken fluency as the vicious Lieutenant Kotler. De Andrade frames his steps thoughtfully, giving them room to breathe and time to make their mark. Gary Yershon s plangent score threads through the action, its dark woodwind notes a sombre reminder of the nightmare that is unfolding out of sight.There are, however, profound errors of tone. If you view the Holocaust as more than simply a fact of history around which fiction can be spun at will, you will find a production that includes pirouetting SS officers deeply troubling. There is too great a disconnect between the heartfelt act of dancing and participation in the industrial-scale slaughter of your fellow human beings. The two activities cannot meaningfully occupy the same dimension.At key moments of the ballet, De Andrade insinuates a figure called the Fury (Mlindi Kulashe) into the action. While true to Boyne s book, in which Bruno mishears the word F hrer, the presence of this fetishistic and quasi-sexual figure is a horrible error, suggesting that the Nazis were victims of diabolic possession rather than open-eyed mass murderers. Kulashe danced well on Thursday, but the cheers and whoops that greeted his performance were, to say the least, disconcerting. If ever there was an occasion for the cast to remain in character during the curtain calls, this was it. In two decades of writing about dance, I don t think I ve ever seen anything as inappropriate as the broad grins of the dancers playing the Auschwitz guards and of those whom, minutes earlier, they d herded into the gas chamber.																																											