ach autumn for more than a decade, EMI (now Warner Classics) has produced a three-disc compilation of recordings from the previous year s Progetto Martha Argerich, the annual festival that  founded in the Swiss city of Lugano in 2002. The mix of solo piano, chamber music and concertos has showcased an equal mix of generations, as Argerich s long-standing friends and collaborators played alongside up-and-coming musicians whom she supported. There was always something special among the recordings, even if there was not always as much of Argerich herself as her fans might have liked. But that all came to an end last year, when sponsorship of the festival was withdrawn, no replacement could be found and the 2016 festival had to be the last.Appropriately for this final compilation, however, Argerich does feature prominently throughout the set. It opens with something that has been a real rarity for more than 30 years: her giving a solo performance of one of the pinnacles of the 20th-century piano repertoire. She recorded Ravel s  in the studio in the 1970s, and hearing her play it 40 years later with the same dazzling security and clarity is an extraordinary privilege. There is also yet another performance of Ravel s G major Concerto, a piece she must have performed and recorded more often than any other, though the orchestral playing on this latest one, from the Orchestra Svizzera Italiana under Alexander Vedernikov, doesn t quite match her brilliance.Argerich also partners Sergei Babayan in Mozart s Sonata for Two Pianos K448, and Stephen Kovacevich in a two-piano arrangement of Debussy s Pr lude   l Apr s-Midi, as well as accompanying Tedi Papavrami in Bach s C minor Violin Sonata. But what I think is new to her discography is Beethoven s Choral Fantasy, in which (with Diego Fasolis conducting) she plays the obbligato piano part with tremendous panache. There are other treats, notably a wonderfully warm account of Brahms  Horn Trio, played by David Guerrier,  and , and a feisty, muscular one of Berg s Chamber Concerto with Capu?on and Angelich as the soloists. But there is no doubting who the set is really all about.																																											