Adversity comes in many forms. Sometimes it seems self-inflicted, at other times it s a result of injustice or inequality, and every now and then it might even be imagined.The struggle faced by addicts is one only those who ve been there can fully understand. People on the outside looking in are probably best off just listening and trying to empathise.  s I Believe in You, which starts this week s list, might help us do that. Who or what does Mark Hollis believe in? Whatever it is, that belief is the the key to overcoming adversity here. isn t having too good a time either with My Shit s Fucked Up, after a startlingly direct diagnosis from his doctor. Temptation, it seems, is one thing that leads to adversity: whether it s failing to resist the bad stuff or a tendency to dive headlong into a harmful relationship, we need to be strong to hold out. is clear enough about this as he faces Another Lonely Day:The loneliness and despair faced by a woman forced into a backstreet abortion is said to be the inspiration for  s Gibsom Street. Poverty and exploitation lead to adversity in a time-honoured pattern.Being broke is no fun and makes life a lot harder than it need be. All the Money I Had Is Gone is tinged with a resentment and a feeling that  they re gonna pay for this . The lines  All the greedy hands / That live around this land / They ll be wiped away come judgment day  seem to place the blame for the   predicament elsewhere. In Busted, on the other hand  is determined to do something about it. The list of problems he faces is endless (and perfectly delivered) but he s convinced he ll make a living somehow.Press gangs used to scour the ports of England looking for victims to man the ships of the navy and it is the misery they left in their wake the explore in Here s the Tender Coming.The hardship faced by the black slaves in the 18th and 19th centuries is evoked by  in Woman of the Ghetto. Things are scarcely better for her generation:  How do you raise your kids in a ghetto? / Do you feed one child and starve another? A mother facing that type of adversity needs to be strong   very strong. She ll draw her inspiration from The Love of the Common People, as  tells us. Meanwhile, the worst thing about this particular type of adversity is that those who suffer are invisible. They are ignored, brushed under the carpet and left to rot. As  says in Subcity:So what to do when you feel ignored? Well  had an idea. Let s walk to London   then they ll have to listen to us.  s Jarrow Song, an upbeat tale of a Geordie boy going down to let those southerners know just how grim it is up north, belies the misery and hardship that inspired the tale. Problem is, Geordie boy, it may well be grim up north, but things aren t much better on the Streets of London   just ask !The new theme will be announced at 8pm (BST) on . You have untilto submit nominations.Here is a reminder of some of the guidelines for readers recommend:																																											