After beating  in the ratings wars (and seemingly leading the BBC to push its own period drama into a summer slot to avoid further clashes), ITV s regal series returns for a second run. As it begins, Victoria is settling into her new life as both a monarch and a mother alongside a new confidante, the Duchess of Buccleuch ().  Same tent, different faces, as Channel 4 s megabucks version of Bake Off finally arrives. It s helmed by Noel Fielding and Sandi Toksvig, while Paul Hollywood and Prue Leith judge the bakes. But do they have the recipe for success? The first of three planned TV adaptations of JK Rowling s Robert Galbraith novels promises much suspense. Down-at-heel PI Cormoran Strike (The Musketeers  Tom Burke) investigates a supermodel s apparent suicide   or was it a murder? dons some fetching blue rubber to play the title role in this smart superhero series. A troubled accountant is convinced that a global baddie is at large, and joins forces with the Tick to uncover the truth. Using the latest technology, this new BBC Natural History Unit epic delves into breathtaking landscapes that are rarely documented.Celebs, sand and confinement are a winning formula for Bear Grylls, who s marooning another set of famous faces on his island from this week. Among the recruits are Rizzle Kicks  Jordan Stephens, TV doctor Sara Kayat, athlete Iwan Thomas and . Here s hoping they re fans of boredom, sunburn and fish. Another series for the Educating  strand, which, as per, is both informative and emotive. As we arrive at Harrop Fold Secondary in Salford, there s a wave of new pupils from around the globe, and tragedy strikes when pupils and teachers are caught up in the Manchester Arena attack. This astronaut contest is more than just a reality show, with contestants undertaking genuine, gruelling tasks, with no promise of making it into space if they win. This week: an emergency simulation, and a chance to operate the Mars rover.Twenty years on from Princess Diana s death, docs about her final days abound   this week alone there s Diana s Death: The Search for the Truth () and Diana: The Day Britain Cried (), plus this from the BBC. With access to family and members of the royal household, this looks set to be the most definitive.As in life, the story of the cartels didn t end when Pablo Escobar died. As other factions rise up, the hit show gets a third outing. 																																											