ake an abstract noun. Cast it over the turbulent waters of your chosen art form. Gather it in. Bingo, you have a theme.  Faith  works well, as does  belief . Or, as one top London orchestra had it last year (my favourite),  , which leads you as far as you can go in any direction, including up.The 2017  has chosen  identity . Another capacious term, until you consider the nature of this cosmopolitan Swiss city. River, lake, mountain and plain converge on the north-south axis of Europe. Its name is pronounced in five different ways by its own German-French-Italian-Romansch-speaking inhabitants. A quarter of its population is foreign. Questions of identity are of its essence, whether you yoke them to music or not. The festival began in 1938. Its early history is a tale of European fragmentation, of musicians in flight from Nazi Germany or fascist Italy, determined to meet and perform together on one platform.The politics may be different today but the goal is the same. Three years after his death, the visionary if exacting spirit of  still guides this month-long event. He founded (with the festival s director, Michael Haefliger) the flagship , now under the baton of , who as a teenager learned his conducting technique at Abbado s elbow.Last week in Switzerland I heard Chailly in his other role, as music director at La Scala, Milan. Identity does get a bit entangled here. Abbado also once held that title, and in 1982 established the Filarmonica della Scala   essentially the company s opera orchestra out of the pit and on stage playing symphonic works. They performed Brahms and Respighi before heading  and Edinburgh.This musical forging of rock and honeycomb was as odd as it was intriguing. Brahms s Violin Concerto, played with compelling seriousness by Athens-born , is weighty yet compressed and majestic. Lucerne s beautiful   in all respects   KKL hall slightly favoured the soloist. Having followed Kavakos s every supple trill and pliant detail, I was aware that the orchestra had not commanded such close attention. Respighi s  and , two parts of an orchestral trilogy of polychromatic extravagance, gave the Filarmonica its moment or, in these episodic works, an awful lot of moments to excel.Here, the string sound was mellow, the brass bright and clear, the woodwind elegant. Written between 1916 and 1928, almost the only compositions for which this Italian oddball is remembered, they positively drip with sensuality on an epic scale. Yet this music still needs more dollops of vulgarity to leave its mark. It culminates in a gargantuan march down the Appian Way at dawn, a show of imperial Roman power. It was noisy enough to waken the living and the dead. In either state, I would be happy not to hear this music for quite a while. For an encore the musicians switched mood, becoming once again the exemplary opera orchestra they are. Verdi s overture to  was tense and incisive.These days spent in Lucerne were crammed with highlights: music by featured composer Michel van der Aa played by the young Lucerne Festival Academy; all three Brahms trios, executed with fire and cogency by Michael Barenboim (violin), Elena Bashkirova (piano)   mother and son   and Julian Steckel (cello): two Haydn symphonies made properly vital and thrilling by the Mahler Chamber Orchestra (another Abbado-inspired ensemble), conducted by Fran?ois-Xavier Roth.Yet the chief purpose of going was to catch the Monteverdi Choir and English Baroque Soloists in all three Monteverdi operas in the composer s 450th anniversary year: (1607),  (1639) and  (1643), the first written for the court of Mantua, the other two for the public theatre in Venice.    using his own edition of , and a collaborative one, made with his musicians, for   has been , all or part, since April, with Berlin, Paris and New York, among others, still to come.The rapport between voices and ensemble resulted in performances of electrifying intimacy. The instrumentalists deserve several paragraphs of their own. Rich with the dark-light colours (think aural Caravaggio) of lutes, theorbos, harp, dulcian, harp and more, their agile playing supported the drama with a restless repertoire of whispers, dissonant groans, sighs, outbursts and exclamations. Any regular reader may have noticed my unapologetically repetitive shout-outs for  (violinist and leader) and  (lutenist), in hope of drawing attention to at least a couple of these under-celebrated period instrument musicians, all tireless in their virtuosity.A core of some 15 singers, equally supple and responsive, take roles across the trilogy, joining forces to make a generous chorus. Hana Bla? kov , Kangmin Justin Kim, Francesca Boncompagni, Robert Burt and Anna Dennis each shone in multiple contributions.The operas   semi-staged, with elegant, adaptable costumes and an understated but telling lighting design   are co-directed by Gardiner and Elsa Rooke. From nine hours of unforgettable music-making, a few arresting moments: in , the Polish tenor Krystian Adam conjured every nuance of suffering and grief as the bereft Orpheus, urgently coaxing that ferryman of the dead, Caronte (top Italian bass Gianluca Buratto), to take him to the underworld. The veteran Monteverdian, Italian baritone Furio Zanasi, brought rewarding complexity to the title role in    a work powerfully concerned with identity and recognition   with French mezzo-soprano Lucile Richardot as the exalted, sorrowing Penelope.And so from the sobriety of  to the carnal greed of Monteverdi s final opera, . The characters who pierce the heart are those innocently wronged: Ottone (the striking countertenor Carlo Vistoli) tormented by the perfidious Poppea; Drusilla seduced into crime out of love for Ottone; Seneca forced to kill himself; and above all Ottavia, abandoned by Nero for no other reason than that he cannot keep his hands off Poppea.The language of this libretto in particular   all three texts are remarkable   has the emotional cadence of Shakespeare, especially in the role of Ottavia, impetuously and thrillingly sung by the Italian mezzo-soprano Marianna Pizzolato. In one soliloquy-aria she describes how her unstoppable tears are like a flood of mirrors in which her husband may  behold my suffering amidst your happiness . Does any composer express pain better than Monteverdi? The closing moments, the rapturous, sexy duet Pur ti miro, were perfectly staged and exquisitely sung by those reckless lovers, Nero and Poppea. It ended in darkness, before a standing ovation yanked us back to our senses. More or less.																																											