ames Hamilton s   brings one of the very greatest [artists] vividly to life , said the Literary Review s , who particularly relished the  naughty bits .  In his shrewd and entertaining biography, [Hamilton] even finds unsuspected double entendres in the pictures,  he wrote, enjoying  a fresh study of the paintings, an examination of the documents and a shrewd reading of sources . There is a gap in Hamilton s source material, since much of Gainsborough s smutty correspondence has been destroyed.  In the artist s later years more people seem to have preserved his letters, making you realise that there is no substitute for the subject s own testimony and turn of phrase,  wrote the Daily Telegraph s , who nonetheless thought the book  highly readable and brilliantly reconstructed .  Hamilton is a first-rate historian,  agreed  in the Spectator, and very good on  the human side .  Gainsborough is one of the most lovable of great artists, and his personality shines through an enjoyable biography by a writer who understands him.  In the Sunday Times,  found it  gorgeously illustrated and compulsively readable   the pages seem to turn themselves. Almost as good as owning a Gainsborough. Reviewers saw plenty of modern parallels in Clair Wills s , making it  the perfect post-Brexit book in the lessons its sometimes shameful history contains , according to  in?the Evening Standard. She found  Wills s material on Caribbean migration is the strongest, capturing both the wide-eyed hope of the Windrush generation and their rancour at the  violent racial hatred  with which they were met . The Times s admired the  mix?of oral history, scholarly analysis and impressionistic essay . In a book that  refuses to opt for easy tales of moral uplift, Wills concentrates on the untidy, everyday reality. It helps that [as the child of Irish immigrants] she is telling her own story here, too, and her background allows her to be simultaneously closer to her subjects and to be critical   or at least mildly so   when required.  A  vivid account that mercifully eschews contemporary moral judgments , wrote  in the Observer, who suggested that  in considering how post-Brexit Britain is coping with race, it is salutary to delve back to the not-so-distant past .  As in most books about immigration, there is far more sympathetic understanding for newcomers than natives,  complained in the Sunday Times.Kamila Shamsie s Man Booker-longlisted  is both a contemporary retelling of an ancient Greek play and a fictional tale of a modern immigrant family, one of whom joins a jihadi group.  The British-Pakistani writer re-imagines  for our age of terror. It s only 250-odd pages, but  feels sprawling, almost epic,  wrote  in the Daily Telegraph.  Her humour mixes freely with her intellection,  raved the New York Times s , for whom   builds to one of the most memorable final scenes I ve read in a novel this century . The Times s  agreed, calling this  fearless but hugely troubling novel   a worthy contender [for the prize] and one pays it the highest compliment one can pay fiction: it makes you think. 																																											