amous Hollywood actor Vera Lockman has not worked in months but she s not lost her audience; the public comes to her. Her New York loft apartment is like Grand Central station, criss-crossed by writers and cops and her mum and her granddad, plus a gun-toting ex-boyfriend who can t decide whether to kill her or kiss her. Amateur psychiatrists take note. Maybe this isn t her apartment at all. Maybe it s, like, an existential projection, the exploded set of her subconscious, a private life laid bare for all to see.If there s anything approaching an outright villain in this tale, it is surely Gun-Toting Ex-Boyfriend, who had the chance to pull the trigger and end the drama and then was promptly shot himself. This leaves the rest of to sit through the indulgent, free-associating The Private Life of a Modern Woman as Vera (played with a commendably straight face by Sienna Miller) dumps his body in the Hudson and then prepares to face the music and yes, quite literally, dance. The remainder of the film plays out as a series of visitations and lengthy exchanges. Here comes  as Detective McKutcheon of the NYPD. And now here s Charles Grodin, actually rather good as her grandpa with dementia, constantly confusing the apartment for a restaurant and wondering who the hell owns it.Then there are the other, less tangible visitations; the ghosts and demons that rear up to grab Vera. Time and again she suffers sudden, jarring flashbacks to that dreadful night with Gun-Toting Ex-Boyfriend. On other occasions the film s dialogue is all-but drowned out by Shostakovich s Leningrad Symphony No 7, cranked up to full volume, to the point where I half wondered whether Vera might be sitting on the remote.The Private Life of a Modern Woman is written and directed by James Toback, a once-talented iconoclast now largely fighting shadows. You can see him in the film, presumably playing himself and subjecting Vera to a long journalistic grilling. He asks about what she s been working on and when we can expect to see her back on screen and excitably speculates that she might have some secret life on the side. He asks,  Are you depressed?  and,  Do you ever think about committing suicide?  That s the question I always leave until last in my own interviews but props to James Toback   he throws it right there in the middle and doesn t even get shown the door.Toback s film is defiantly rough-edged and loose, still wet from workshopping; a trail of half-formed ideas. That s fine as it goes   a necessary antidote to the bland uniformity of the average studio picture. But it s it s a perilous tightrope walk, ensuring that these kind of films ultimately hold together. One step out of place and the film cheesewires itself, loses all shape and logic. The Private Life of a Modern Woman hits the ground in a mass of wet, bloody pieces. A few of these cuts are not without interest. As for the rest, they can go straight in the bin.																																											