ard work pays off,  says Jme as he introduces Work, one of the final tracks of the evening, to a sellout stadium crowd at the O2. He s not wrong. It wasn t long ago that Jamie Adenuga was making beats in his bedroom using the forgotten  game Mario Paint, doing a degree in digital design and driving around cardboard boxes of self-released CDs to give to independent record shops. In grime s pirate radio days in the mid-00s, once it was clear no one beyond ,  and  were about to be signed, there wasn t much choice beyond giving up or DIY independence. Adenuga defiantly made a virtue of the latter, with phenomenal   if not immediate   success.Twelve years after the crew was founded, built around Jme and his Mercury-winning older brother , have ascended to the state of pop cultural grace that allows for a day-long takeover of the O2 complex: not just the 20,000-capacity main arena, but its many side-rooms, alcoves and cubby holes too. Everything but the All Bar One.  really is at its US-rap-in-1992 crossover moment now. Even a couple of years ago, it was inconceivable that you might have seen eight-year-old children in baggy Wiley T-shirts, accompanied by their parents, turning up for a bank holiday outing to a grime festival   with the opportunity for on-site dinner at a Harvester beforehand. The entirety of the North Greenwich peninsula seems to have been swamped by excitable teenage boys wearing man-bags and using slang they picked up on YouTube.It s effectively a one-day festival, offering much more than just live PAs from grime s better-known names. Among other things there is the tantalising offer of afternoon rollerskating to legendary American garage DJ Todd  the God  Edwards, in the Tropical Roller Disco. Only 25 people or so are in there, but it s a surreal treat nonetheless. Elsewhere there s the unique opportunity to play Jme at Call of Duty in the gaming room and a five-a-side football tournament going on in the late-summer sunshine, while Big Zuu and Logan Sama host the next generation of grime MCs at an outdoor stage next to the pitch. It is all a bit silly. But if you re going to relocate a genre rooted in low-ceilinged clubs with dim lighting and juddering sub-bass to the massive suburban shopping mall that is the O2, you may as well do it warts and all, with a sense of fun.In the main arena  is the between-acts DJ, and if few of the teenagers know who he is, they do recognise his crowdpleasing selection of recent American rap anthems. Rising French afro trap rapper  is sensational, effervescent and funky, but the language barrier sadly seems too much of an obstacle, giving rise to the weird dynamic of Westwood s between-sets bangers du jour being more popular than the live acts either side of them.With A$AP Rocky cancelling at the last minute, the final support act J Hus immediately has the crowd captivated; the young rapper s beguiling blend of Afrobeats and grime, singing and MCing quickly has the crowd moshing to Clartin, and attempting a skank on the garage-tinged Plotting. His hype man announces this is J Hus s first ever London show, which sounds like it must be a mistake   he was born barely a couple of miles away from this venue and has been getting plaudits on the underground scene for a couple of years at least; but like  before him, a de facto (though unofficial) Met police blacklisting has stifled his live career so far. It s a bizarrely overdue London debut for a Mercury-nominated artist, but all the more triumphant for it.As the headline crew, Boy Better Know aren t about to take any risks: this isn t their first festival-sized show, and they ve learned to tailor their set to chant-along anthems, following Skepta s focused, clear-voiced path in particular. So the godfather Wiley shows up and is a consummate professional, delivering  and  with his usual energy but none of his erratic behaviour of the past. There are a flurry of Skepta tunes: the three key anthems from Konnichiwa   ,  and That s Not Me   as well as new track , and Lethal Bizzle turns up to perform  with him.Jme brings out Giggs for    perhaps the tune of the night   and Giggs then ups the ante and brings out Drake for KMT. The Canadian megastar is wisely restricted to one tune rather than being allowed to overshadow his hosts, and the show is notably lacking in ridiculous pyrotechnics, visuals or stagecraft. This is an ensemble show, and a homecoming show, and if BBK have really become the first grime super-brand, then it s hard not to be impressed that they ve done so by thoroughly rejecting the music industry and   tropical roller disco and five-a-side football tournament notwithstanding   sticking to grime s original pirate radio formula. One DJ, a few MCs passing the mic   and the musicians themselves in full control.																																											