 comes with some advice via his website:  Leave voters planning to walk out in disgust will need to book early.  Expect musings on Trump, Brexit (obviously) and his own intellectual superiority.Do you enjoy live music, anarchic visual spectacle and contemporary dance? If so,  s Grand Finale   billed as  part dance, part gig, part theatre    is tailor-made for you. Featuring 10 dancers onstage next to a band of musicians, the performance includes  cinematic electronic sounds  and  vocal chants .Opening on Friday at Liverpool s The Florrie, this exhibition features previously unseen photos taken on the first UK tour of one-hit wonders The La s. There s a legacy-stretching album of rarities, too.Often working with casts, Rachel Whiteread started big, creating an imposing concrete impression of the interior space of a Victorian terraced house in 1993. It won her  that year (she was the first female winner), before being unceremoniously demolished by Tower Hamlets council in 1994. This new show celebrates 25 years of her sculpture, featuring well-known works   including 1995 s Untitled (Pink Torso)   alongside some previously unseen pieces. This major new exhibition at the British Museum shines a spotlight on the nomadic warrior tribes of Siberia who flourished between 900BC and 200BC. For centuries, all trace of their culture was trapped beneath the ice, but recent thawing has revealed clothes, gold jewellery and furniture.As the title suggests, this new season shows there s more to Indian film than the obvious. Highlights include Berlin film festival-winner Newton, the heartwarming  and political melodrama Court.  centres on Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem, whose tranquil life is obliterated after a visit from Ed Harris and Michelle Pfeiffer. Expect scenery-chewing performances, bleeding light bulbs and an uneasy feeling of perpetual dread throughout. Be baffled from 15 September.Ian McDiarmid, AKA Star Wars s Emperor Palpatine, takes on the role of Enoch Powell in this unfortunately still-relevant snapshot of a divided nation. , switching between Powell s incendiary 1968 speech on immigration and 1992 creation Rose, a black academic writing a book about English identity.Dinner-party soul practitioner       attempted to move him away from mega-ballad All of Me s sappy Hallmark-isms, employing the likes of Perfume Genius producer Blake Mills and Will Oldham. So expect a smattering of experimentation either side of the caramel-soft crooning.Forget hanging prints on a wall, this photography festival is all about interacting with the art   specifically, in this case, by standing your pint on it. Budding photographers are invited to take a photo in Hull and East Yorkshire, upload it to Instagram with the #Hullphoto2017 hashtag, impress photographer and judge  and then the winners  efforts will be made into beermats and littered across various pubs, clubs and venues. The winners will be announced by Parr on 15 November. Cheers!																																											