As claims to fame go, the city of Bangor in eastern Maine has one of the most playful out there. Disguised as its fictional persona of Derry, this small city is the setting for several Stephen King stories   including ,  and    and it is also the author s own residence. While fictional Derry has servedas the epicentre of many paranormal and supernatural events, and is arguably the world capital of terror, real-life Bangor is a quintessential New England small town, with its suburbs and malls, its brick buildings and peaceful waterfront. But it can easily be seen in a menacing light when its streets are quiet and lit only by the glow of street lamps. With the release of the new film adaptation of his 1986 novel , hordes of tourists have travelled to the real-life version of Derry. King-themed tours of Bangor include sites, like the storm drain that inspired terrifying scenes involving the evil creature that appears as Pennywise the clown.Stephen King lives in Bangor, which is as much of an attraction as the city s fictional referencesHis house is located on a quiet suburb and is flanked by a wrought-iron fence shaped as spiderwebs and bats. He is known for chatting to eager fans who pilgrimage to take the obligatory selfie in front of his home. A few days ago, a mysterious red balloon   the plaything that Pennywise gives children   appeared in one of the windows to fans   and chills.  I wasn t the one who hung the balloon!  .  Tabby [his wife] and I are visiting with friends and relatives in the western part of the state. Not sure who did, but I don t mind. When there is a book, a movie, a mini-series or some significant Stephen King-related activity, we always see an uptake in the tour vans and the cars parking in front of his house, and coming to see the sights in Bangor that are related to his stories,  says Tanya Emery, the community and economic development director for the city. Bangor residents have always been extremely matter-of-fact about it all   and their respect for his privacy is reportedly what s encouraged him to settle here.   the population of Bangor.   the average low temperature in January.   the size in acres of the Mount Hope Cemetery, believed to be the second oldest garden cemetery in the US. It was also the setting for the film adaptation of King s Pet Sematary.   the height in feet of the statue dedicated to Paul Bunyan, a legendary lumberjack. Bangor is that claim to be his birthplace.Bangor was incorporated as part of New England by European settlers in 1791, and by the 19th century it became the . Located on the Penobscot river, it had huge lumber and shipbuilding industries until the trade diminished and headed west. In the 20th and 21st centuries, its economy veered towards retail and healthcare. Like many American cities, it was deeply affected by the 2008 recession, and it is now trying to figure out how to prosper in a post-industrial world.Bangor is indirectly present in pop culture via Stephen King as the fictional town of Derry, but many of the adaptations of King s books weren t actually filmed there. Pet Sematary was, however, where you can see King doing a cameo as a priest. And, of course, you can head to cinemas to watch , directed by Andy Muschietti.There are deeper talking points in Bangor than the . The city is in a time of transition; the last decade has seen a lot of redevelopment bringing  a reenergised sense of downtown and the waterfront, which has been really positive for the community in so many ways , says Emery. Big employers such as e-commerce homeware company Wayfair have moved into town, but there is also a lot of disparity. Bangor is still grappling with the remnants of the 2008 housing crisis.  We re dealing with substance abuse issues, which so many communities in the US are dealing with, and disengaged people who we want to bring back either to workforce or to education,  says Emery.The downtown v suburbs struggle has been seen elsewhere in America, as many towns experienced a similar shift in the last 50 years.  Malls became the popular thing, and everybody moved out of downtowns and into suburbs, and was focused on commuting in cars. There are so many cities in the US that have gone through this transition   Hartford, Connecticut, Cleveland or , which is probably the biggest and has been the most challenging,  Emery adds.Bangor is quietly observing how those communities forge a path from this, and it is in the middle of the new national interest in people living in cities again.The challenge now is to piggyback off that tendency to grow the economy while  retaining what makes the city unique and interesting . In the immediate future, Bangor s council is focused on continuing to redevelop its waterfront area and supporting existing businesses to  make sure that we weather the storm . Being a huge retail centre   servicing all of northern and eastern Maine and Atlantic Canada   the nationwide  in that industry has had a devastating effect.The  and  websites are both great resources for information on arts and culture to brilliant hidden restaurants. The reporter  is a great person to follow for local tips. 																																											