assie came home and Willy was freed but the omens aren t looking good for Lean on Pete, the imperilled racehorse at the centre of Andrew Haigh s heart-rending creature feature. Pete, we soon learn, is overworked and past his prime, destined to be sold south for slaughter as soon as he loses his next race. And while Disney might conspire a happy ending for this horse, it s likely that British-born Haigh has a different destination in mind.Flushed with the homegrown success of  and the brilliant , Haigh s first American-set picture fairly wallows in hardship and misery, almost to a fault. It proceeds to cut Pete loose, point him towards the desert and then drags its anxious audience along for the ride.Except that Haigh s film isn t just about Pete. It s also the tale of Charlie (Charlie Plummer), the teenaged boy who loves him. Charlie works as an assistant to Del, a grizzled old trainer who is played by  in the sort of role that would once have gone to Burgess Meredith or Ernest Borgnine. Rounding out the team is Bonnie (Chlo? Sevigny), a bruised, cynical jockey, periodically forced to supplement her winnings with waitress shifts at Red Lobster. One day, she says, she will have to give it up altogether.  There are only so many times you can fall off a horse and get up. Adapted from , Lean on Pete is at its potent, stirring best during the opening furlough, when it focuses on this makeshift hobo family as it criss-crosses the Pacific Northwest from one racetrack to the next. It s a passage that jogs memories of John Huston s , another elegiac account of three lost souls struggling to find their bearings in the swirling dust, their fate inextricably bound up with that of the horses they handle. But the tensions are mounting; this family unit cannot hold. Del has a reputation for riding his animals into the ground and then fast-tracking them to the knackers  yard when their legs start to buckle. Pete s time is up but Charlie can t let him go. So he absconds with the horse under cover of darkness, meaning to light out for Wyoming, where he thinks his long-lost aunt lives.It is at this point, I fear, that Haigh risks slightly losing purchase, allowing the reins to go slack in his hands. He s not the first British talent to find themselves dazzled by America s wide open spaces and seduced by the poetic possibilities of its impoverished interior. Andrea Arnold, for one, was happy to luxuriate at length amid the sun-baked squalor of last year s    and yet I always had the sense that there was a point to her wanderings and a fine grain to her detail. Haigh s handling is a shade less distinctive, even generic in its arrangements of truck stops and trailers and isolated desert homes. It adopts the easy swing of a country-music ballad, piling on the hard times and all but dissolving into tears during the maudlin final verse.But if the trip feels familiar, that s not necessarily a bad thing. One might even go so far as to claim that it s part of the appeal; a welcome insulation against all the hazards in our path. And Haigh s film is never less than heartfelt and affecting. It cares deeply for Charlie and hopes we do, too. So it insists we stick with him as the truck breaks down and he runs out of cash, trailing the badlands in search of a new home. In the end, perhaps, the kid is as much a symbol of soulful, martyred innocence as the racehorse at his side. But we cheer him on all the same; a stumbling rank outsider who might just stay the course.																																											