ast weekend, 24 newly renovated houses in  were opened to the public so that prospective tenants could apply to live there. Within a day all were taken.That these houses exist at all is something of a miracle, as they are part of the Welsh Streets, an area of handsome Victorian terraces that national and city government, at a cost of millions in public money, spent more than a decade trying to destroy. Their survival shows how, sometimes, persistent campaigning can defeat the monolithic, clumsy and capricious thinking of authority.The Welsh Streets were victims of the Blair government s housing market renewal initiative, which was one of the more perverse applications of market ideology to social issues. Launched in 2002, it saw the problem of rundown city neighbourhoods as being one of , which it sought to address by, among other things, spending hundreds of millions of pounds on the demolition and clearance of thousands of what were seen as  obsolete  houses across northern England and the Midlands.It repeated the much-derided rehousing policies of the 1960s   the crude condemnation of houses as  slums , the failure to see inherent value either in building stock or in the communities contained therein, the belief that social ills could be cured by attacking their physical fabric. But it came with less of the 1960s idealism about the new homes that might be created. The programme failed to acknowledge the value of respecting the past, with its memories and the sense of continuity and identity that it brings. According to one campaigner, it was also an over-reaction to the decades-long decline of industrial cities, and failed to notice that a corner was being turned.In Liverpool, in areas such as Anfield and Granby, it led to the forced eviction of hundreds of people from homes that, in some cases, they had occupied for decades. Homeowners were obliged to sell for low prices, which were insufficient to buy replacements.  were broken up. Whole neighbourhoods went into  managed decline , which meant streets vacated and  tinned up , some demolished, and a few determined residents left behind in what became frightening wastelands.The Welsh Streets, an area built by Welsh developers and Welsh labour    hewn , as walesonline put it,  from the clay and slate of Wales by the sweat of a generation of migrant workers    became famous. This was partly because Ringo Starr was born there, in , but also because the destruction of these houses, of a type that in London would sell for six- or seven-figure sums, looked particularly wanton. Liverpool city council, incentivised by national government funding, planned to demolish 440 homes, and set about buying them up, emptying them and creating mini-ghost-towns.Whatever good might have come of the housing market renewal project   reports by National Audit Office and the Audit Commission suggested that it was limited   was curtailed in 2011, when the coalition government decided to terminate what had been planned as a 15-year programme. Liverpool city council, arguing that most residents wanted the new homes they had been promised, pushed on with its demolition plans.In January 2015, following a public inquiry, the demolition plans were stopped by the then communities secretary, Eric Pickles. The decision, said the city s mayor, Joe Anderson, was  yet another kick in the teeth for long-suffering residents , but the council   having no other option   set about plans for refurbishment. It went into partnership with , a company that had successfully renewed derelict terraces in Accrington. Their big idea was to build for rent, not sale, at sufficiently low rates to be accessible to nurses, careworkers, university lecturers and others usually priced out of good-quality housing. There would also be homes for social rent and others for sale and combinations of renting and selling.The 24 houses just snapped up are the result of a pilot project for a plan to create about 300 homes, mostly through refurbishment. Placefirst has worked out ways to recombine the traditional houses to make homes of two, three and four bedrooms. It improved the planting and the paving in the streets and cleared out the old backyards, alleys and rear extensions in order to make communal gardens. The intention, I m told, was to make place where  kids can play and people can really get to know each other, not like standing in a lift in a block of flats . Anderson now says that the plans are  really exciting  and will  breathe new life into the area and give it a long-term sustainable future .Throughout the long struggle over the Welsh Streets, their most persistent champion has been Save Britain s . The campaign group s Liverpool heritage expert Jonathan Brown says that it challenged the official line that the houses were sub-standard, outdated and beyond repair. Although they had problems, they were,  according to the council s own statistics, in above-average condition. House prices were rising. These houses had survived two world wars, Margaret Thatcher, and the 1981 Toxteth riots, and now Tony Blair came along with all this money to knock them down.  The option of renovating old houses to modern standards is, Brown says,  actually a futuristic sustainable housing form .Save Britain s Heritage was joined by some local residents, but not all, as one effect of housing market renewal was to divide communities. Some wanted to keep the streets they knew, others saw new houses as the only way to end the damp and rats from which they were suffering. The option of getting the best of both worlds   the one now being implemented   was not available.If the Welsh Streets are now heading for a happy ending, it is also, as Brown says,  bittersweet . The residents who were there over a decade ago were moved out and scattered, although some are now returning. Money has been wasted.But, if by much too convoluted and destructive a route, it has been demonstrated that the past has a value to the present, and you don t have to scrub it all out and start again.																																											