ate on in , a Guardian journalist makes an appearance. He has a  firm and warm  handshake and even has what might be called a  Guardian look :  tie-less, jacket-less, an inexplicable but definite attitude of leftiness   it could have been the hair; he had undoubtedly lefty hair .Obviously, a description like that is going to leave me preening my own lefty mop. While I m admitting to personal biases, I should also tell you that I once published one of Macdonald s short stories through my publisher Galley Beggar Press. But there s no conspiracy there, beyond the fact that I like her writing. I ve always found it sharp, funny, warm   and charmingly odd. The Threat Level Remains Severe has all of those qualities. It starts off as an apparently straightforward story of a young(ish) woman called Grace, who holds a safe, if unfulfilling, job in the . Her handbag, we are told early on, contains:  the book, the phone, the lipstick, the spare tampon, the screwed-up balls of chewing gum in silver foil, the unused condom with the worn silver wrapping    giving us a neat introduction to Grace s personality and her lack of luck in the bedroom.But fortunately, both Grace s office life and her love life are starting to get more interesting. She s been receiving emails from a mysterious admirer calling himself Reuben Swift, which provide welcome distraction from her usual routine of committee meetings and photocopying. Meanwhile, a new Australian colleague called Brett Beamish also sparks interest. Brash, absurdly clean and ruthlessly ambitious, Brett has  a pretty brutal exclusion policy with anything that didn t go his way    and remembers approvingly that his dad always said:  Show me a good loser and I ll show you a loser.  Brett also has no time for Guardian-reading lefties   so it seems all the more surprising and interesting that Grace begins to warm to him. So far, so Bridget Jones. Which is no bad thing   especially because the novel is pleasantly seasoned with the aforementioned oddness (in one scene, a character breaks down sobbing because she s in love with Boris Johnson). It s also spiced with a healthy dose of cynicism about the conventions of office life and working in parliament. As you might hope, our beloved MPs get an enjoyably rough ride, as with one called Mrs Brenton, who is brilliantly able to juggle speech-making, committees, opening fetes and judging school art and raising her children while keeping her hair and nails  immaculate . How does she do it all, although she is clearly a fool? She has  utter confidence in herself on every front. That was her secret weapon.  That certainly sounds like an MP. In itself, such material would make for a satisfying novel, give or take a few minor issues. Although Grace s narrative voice is smart, touchingly dissatisfied and witty, Macdonald s attempts to render others  aren t always as convincing. There s a strand in Brett s voice that is consistently funny, but occasionally falls back on two-dimensional stereotypes about over-ambitious, designer-clad males. Not all of the imagery works, either. One chapter ends with elaborate metaphor about good intentions to go for a healthy jog dissolving  like a laptop screen running out of battery charge . And yes, that fell flat for me. More generally, this is writing that s enjoyable line by line, embedded in an engaging story. Things get better still, because it turns out that Macdonald is also excellent at springing surprises. The less I reveal about those the better. So, let s just say a few things happen that complicate, darken and deepen the experience of the novel. The story becomes a study of loneliness, alienation and frustration, as well as a more conventional quest for fulfilment. Ultimately, it all heads back to something more straightforward, and the various strands are tied up with bows that cynics may feel are a little too neat. But this remains an intriguing book. If only all the fiction emerging from Westminster could be this rewarding.Next time: 																																											