aurie is dead. Laurie was the popular pub landlord in a pretty English village. Now it s time for son Stephen (David Mitchell) to step up to the plate, in the pub, in the village, as head of the family. Trouble is Stephen s not much of a stepper-up-to-the-plate. More of a faff-around-the-edges kind of chap. It doesn t help that he keeps on turning into his roughly 12-year-old self (nice touch, that). He has never really grown up, broken away, achieved anything, taken any risks or responsibilities, asserted himself.And it really doesn t help when Andrew (Robert Webb) shows up at the funeral. Andrew is a smooth-talking, jetset high-achiever (he says) who was once fostered for a few months by the family. He says. Stephen doesn t remember him and thinks he may be a con man, a Martin Guerre type. But they   Laurie and Ellen, his weed-smoking hippy wife (lovely from Penny Downie)   did foster a lot of kids. And no one else thinks there s anything at all suspicious about Andrew; they all think he s fabulous.Got it?  (Channel 4) doesn t have the most straightforward of premises; it takes a bit of setting up. But that s done well, and it s worth the effort, because once you re on top of things, it s an interesting place to be. A mine with many seams: fostering and foster siblings and the tricky relationship between foster children and biological ones in the same family; growing up and breaking free v not growing up and not breaking free; parents  shadows and living in them; the father-son thing; dead dads; a bit of parochial gossipy village life; and more.Speaking of shadows, any comedy starring  is inevitably going to get compared with the incomparable . Plus Back is the baby of Simon Blackwell, who wrote a few episodes of that too. And a few bells do inevitably ring, there is some crossover, principally in the two leads, and their relationship. Mitchell s character is uptight and fussy and perpetually annoyed by Webb s, who is more impulsive, gets less worked up about things, as well as being really annoying. But that s just who they are, as individuals and as a double act, and why they work so well together. There s enough difference in the situation and the setup for this to be quite distinct.I had some concerns about its boldness and bluntness.  He fucking hated you, you tedious shitbag,  Stephen says to a villager (after the tedious shitbag s gone, of course; there s nothing bold about Stephen, remember). But then, in the pub, there s some comedy based on misunderstanding and wordplay. I feel like I need to give him a big brother send-off,  says Geoff, in the pub, about the funeral. Do you still watch Big Brother?  says Jan, who works behind the bar. No, I meant cos Laurie was my big brother,  says Geoff.It s not just word play.  We haven t watched it since Nadia was in it,  says Mike, who also works behind the bar. I never had you down as watching Big Brother, Geoff,  says Jan. So now it s about Jan and Mike not listening to a word Geoff says. That s funnier.The gags get better, too. There s a music festival nearby, with four stages, someone tells Andrew, trying to impress him, perhaps persuade him to stay.  Yeah, like cancer,  says Stephen.The best line of the night, about vinyl records, has nothing to do with word play or double entendres though   but it is glorious, artful, beautifully timed, The Thick Of It filth. Thank you, Simon Blackwell.Or perhaps he s saved the best til last, the end of the episode? When Geoff, who s done a nice 70s soundtrack for his big brother s wake, goes to the loo, taking his iPad with him. The family is having a chat about Andrew staying, and suddenly Porn Hub is playing over the wireless speaker, crystal clear:  Right there, oh my God  It s a hilarious, and rather modern Bluetooth audio joke. And one that actually took on extra excrutiatingness in my house. I was rewatching the episode (I take my job very seriously) on my laptop at home, sitting on the sofa. And my mother-in-law walked in just then, no word of a lie. Oh my God, you re going to make me come, oh God, my God, I m coming, Night, Sam. Night Jackie. 																																											