 couldn t deal with it at all. I said things like, if you want to starve yourself, starve yourself! I just thought it was a fad, a stupid lifestyle thing, a teenager being crass. I never for a moment thought it was a mental illness. So journalist and news presenter Mark Austin explained his reaction to his daughter Maddy s descent into anorexia nervosa, a condition that nearly killed her. It was one of several moments of brutal honesty in last night s  (Channel 4), in which the Austin family used their story as the basis for a programme that sought to dispel the misapprehensions under which Mark had laboured, and to argue for better NHS treatment for sufferers of the disease.And what a disease; what suffering. Maddy, a keen runner specialising in the 800m, fell victim to it under the pressure of trialling for county and national races and applying for university.  It all got too much   I suppose I didn t have another way of showing that I wasn t OK.  She was diagnosed in December 2012, by which time she had become very withdrawn and was having  horrible thoughts. I genuinely felt my family and friends would be better off without me. I was,  says her mother Catherine, an A&E doctor helpless in the face of a non-physical illness,  just losing her. Maddy and Mark travel to Nottingham to meet Rachel, whose daughter Naomi (not her real name) has been hospitalised five times since she was diagnosed two years ago. She is currently in a private facility paid for by the NHS in Edinburgh. Rachel makes the 600-mile round trip to see her as often as she can, and cries all the way to the airport on the way home.  One time   I willed the taxi to crash. But I ve got to pull myself together because I ve got two other daughters. Naomi can t be in a hospital or under outpatient care nearer home   as she and her family long for her to be and which would surely aid her recovery   because there simply aren t the facilities there. Because there isn t the money. Because. Maybe because there isn t enough money for anything. Maybe because Mark s old belief that starving yourself is an affectation that shouldn t be indulged runs deep among those who allocate beds and funding for these things. Maybe because anorexia is a (primarily) privileged, (primarily) female thing?Whatever the reason or reasons, it ended in tragedy for the Stafford family. They moved from Leicester to Norfolk with their anorexic daughter Lydia and discovered there was nothing like the support she had been getting back home. After the overstretched mental health crisis team spoke to her on the phone instead of making their scheduled visit, Lydia killed herself. Four years on, her grieving mother is now anorexic herself.Enter the lesser-spotted secretary of state for health Jeremy Hunt. Why is treatment such a lottery, asks Mark. Where is the revolution in treatment for under-18s, that three years ago the government promised a ?150m injection of cash would produce? And is he aware that according to research by eating disorder charity Beat, 70% of the commissioning groups that have control of this non-ringfenced sum are spending some or all of it on other things, including, in at least one case, an IT system?Hunt blinked and swallowed increasingly drily. His eyes darted about seeking an exit that didn t materialise. It was never a promise they could fix things overnight, apparently. They wanted to be able to make the promise to do better. Gasp. Croak.In the meantime, our young people turn their misery in on themselves and, with nothing else to eat, choke on it.Everything about (BBC2)   the music, the slow-motion footage, the schmaltzy tone of the film-maker s voice as she narrated events or interviewed her subjects   suggested we were supposed to find this story of nonagenarian runners unbearably moving and uplifting in equal parts. Perhaps because of this, or perhaps because I found the main subject, 97-year-old sprinter Charles Eugster, nowhere near as charming as Selah Hennessy seemed to, I did not. Rather than drilling down into the runners  motivations, the film seemed too content to treat them like a version of Doctor Johnson s dog, simply pointing a camera at ancient frames coming down the track and marvelling not that it was done well but done at all. It may be true, but it doesn t make for a riveting hour. Jog on.																																											