Channel 4 s hopes that  will recoup the ?25m a year it needs to break even have risen after several mouth-watering reviews ahead of its return to TV next week, but a deteriorating advertising market threatens to leave it with a soggy bottom.The broadcaster has looked to cash in on Bake Off s status as the biggest show on British TV   more than half the viewing public watched the final of the last series on the BBC   pushing premium-priced ad slots to recover the ?75m it paid to air the show for the next three years. has been demanding a steep ?150,000-?200,000 for a 30-second slot, compared with a typical peaktime price much closer to ?100,000. Advertisers have been asked to commit to prices comparable to hotly demanded TV events   such as an England football match in a World Cup or the Euros, or a slot in an X Factor final when the show was in its prime   which can command as much as ?250,000 apiece.With firms  advertising budgets being cut and cautiously committed as the economy worsens, many have balked at stumping up such eye-watering sums, particularly given that the popularity of the new-look Bake Off has yet to be tested with fans. There has been a lot of genuine excitement and hype in the ad community when Channel 4 first got Bake Off but then the reality set in about the cost,  said one senior executive at a media agency.  A lot of advertisers are playing a waiting game, they aren t breaking down the doors unless it is a bang-on strategic fit and you need to be in it. Channel 4 s mission has hardly been helped by new judge Pru Leith  comforting  Bake Off fans used to the ad-free BBC by telling them they can always record the show and fast-forward through the almost 17 minutes of ads and sponsors  messages.While the launch show is an advertising sellout, there are still plenty of slots available for the remainder of the 10-part series. However, the broadcaster said it was not panicking. September is selling really well, there are still opportunities   which we would completely expect in a show like this,  said Damon Lafford, the head of agency client sales at Channel 4.  It is our biggest show and some [slots] get sold now, some get held back for later, that is how you maximise value. It is selling as we would expect it to. Advertisers know it is high value. That will be realised when the show comes back next Tuesday. However, there have already been setbacks. Channel 4 s , which would have put it in the big league of Britain s Got Talent and The X Factor, failed to ignite a bidding war. The broadcaster ended up settling for a ?4m deal, with one insider admitting it had  misjudged  the market.Then, last week a string of extremely positive reviews previewing the new show helped to dispel concerns that, with only one of the original faces still on board, Paul Hollywood, Channel 4 had only acquired what rival ITV uncharitably termed  baking powder and a tent .Assuming Bake Off fans switch on in their droves, advertisers who have been sitting on the sidelines will be picking up the phone when TV audience figures are revealed on Wednesday.The show will make headlines if it fails to match the heady heights of the BBC version   the final of the last series drew 14 million viewers   even though the broadcaster, and advertisers, do not expect it to.To make money the show needs only to average 3 million viewers and Jay Hunt, Channel 4 s outgoing creative boss, said she would be  absolutely delighted  if it hit the 5-6 million expected to tune in to the first episode.Bake Off is set to easily be the channel s biggest show of the year, and probably its biggest since the 8.3 million who tuned in to the Paralympics opening ceremony in 2012. And Channel 4 needs a hit.The broadcaster has struggled in recent years to find shows that can bring in big returning audiences. Only two programmes this year   the documentary Diana: In Her Own Words and an episode of Gogglebox   attracted more than 3 million viewers on the night they aired.As a result,  4% this year, with advertiser favourites, the 16- to 34-year-old crowd, down 7%, and the broadcaster s ad revenue is forecast to be down more than the predicted 4% to 5% fall for the total TV ad market.  Bake Off is the crown jewels and they are pinning their hopes to it,  said a second top executive at a media agency.  They are never going to get back the ?75m in straight ad revenue, but they know that. It is about what it can do as an overall franchise to stop the decline at Channel 4. With up to 40 hours of Bake Off programming a year to cash in on, including the Jo Brand-fronted main spin-off Extra Slice and Paul Hollywood s A Baker s Life, Channel 4 is setting the foundation for it to be the most lucrativefranchise since it axed Big Brother in 2009.The launch comes as the channel s chief executive, David Abraham, is set to follow Hunt out of the door, , who could do with inheriting a well-oiled hit so she can . I don t think Bake Off will turn around Channel 4 s year but they are not going to get egg on their face either,  said the first senior media agency executive.  The industry wants Bake Off and Channel 4 to do well, to give ITV a run for its money, and advertisers are genuinely interested and want it to do well. It all depends on the ratings now.  																																											