conoclasm never fell out of fashion, but it has almost always been metaphorical: if you wanted to find the last time monuments were destroyed to significant political effect in this country   adding a mohican haircut to  doesn t count   you would probably have to reach back to the English civil war. Then came , which lit on the statue of Cecil Rhodes in the University of Cape Town as a flashpoint in a wider movement to decolonise South African education. The contagion was swift, arriving at Oriel College, Oxford, by the end of the year.The arguments have the adamantine quality of the statues themselves. Those defending statues, whether that s Donald Trump saluting the big beasts of slavery, or Chris Patten telling students to admire Cecil Rhodes for the sake of  freedom of thought    do so on the basis that they are a part of history. To remove or destroy them is to deny or erase history. Those wanting to tear them down argue that it is not history that they want to erase, but a manipulated version of it, in which the villains are valorised and the victims erased.This should be relatively easy to resolve: the danger, if a statue of Rhodes were removed, isn t that we will forget history. Rather, it is that we will revisit history, and ask who we actually want to memorialise. In a more relaxed age, we could perhaps agree to add some words to Rhodes s plaque -  politician, adventurer, resource vulture, white supremacist , while choosing someone more pro-social for the next statue.However, it probably wouldn t have come up: iconoclasm is, above anything, an attempt to bring to a head a debate that is operating at a subcuticular level. Colonialism, good or bad? Slavery, good or bad? These questions are boiling under, like suppurating sores, poisoning issues from Brexit in the UK to police racism in the US. Coming out trenchantly against a long-dead enemy is one way of forcing the confrontation to the surface. Statue-crushing is not something that happens in an era of consensus.If the violence that resulted in Charlottesville, Virginia, last month, when white supremacists marched against plans to remove a statue of the Confederate general Robert E Lee (under the gaze of a statue of Thomas Jefferson), wasn t surprising, the extent of it   the tragic death of  and the injury of 19 others   was. So was the chillingly neutral statement made afterwards by the police: the white supremacist marchers were simply better armed than they were. But various statue-actions across the US have held another surprise: when you pull down a Confederate monument, they  come down with a tiny tug, then crumple like a paperclip ,  of the online magazine Mic. These Confederate statues aren t carved marble; they are cheap bronze casts, and they went up not straight after the civil war, but in two waves, one at the turn of the 20th century, one in the 1960s, coinciding both times with a growing civil rights movement. Their sponsors   the Daughters of the Confederacy, standing $200 statues for towns with the will to memorialise the glorious old days, but not the means   are not a historical record of Robert E Lee standing among his peers. They are a propaganda history-grab many years after, undertaken on the principle that if you shape the past, you own the present.Very lavish sculptures, intricately carved in marble or stone, have their own peculiar insult, of course: the ownership of history by the richest. Yet incredibly cheap, tinny monuments, with  Daughters of the Confederacy  stamped on them like a Primark label, are pretty vexing, too. If you are going to appropriate history, it should at least cost you.Statues, in real life, offer nothing to the historian of the man himself (oh, yeah   it s always a man, unless it s a horse, or, as one of the readers who nominated the statues below has pointed out, a naked unnamed nymph), but they do offer a pretty solid account to the nation of what it should be proud of. Trying to upend the blood-drenched narrative has, so far, spilt more blood. It seems that you can only tell a new story by erecting new statues. , who was born in 1759, was the original suffragette and the first feminist. She was a woman so extraordinarily ahead of her time that if she were here today, writing the same things, living the same life, she would still be considered a radical. A woman from a bleak background, who gave birth to a child out of wedlock, she dragged herself up to be an independent, bestselling author on human rights and gender issues. I do not wish [women] to have power over men, but over themselves,  she wrote, in    as well as arguing that women were capable of reason but merely lacked education. She was right, of course, but feminists the world over are still making the very same argument and receiving the very same response   aggressive trolling by people with louder voices.Wollstonecraft did not just write about independent women; she lived as one and was derided both then and after her death by those whose power she threatened. So dangerous were her views to the establishment that her voice had to be delegitimised. Horace Walpole wrote of her that she was a  hyena in petticoats .A statue to Wollstonecraft would be two fingers up to the naysayers of the time and to their modern-day descendants, who spew anti-woman bile across the world. If it were up to me, I would have her standing in her Stoke Newington community in north London, resplendent in petticoats, with hyenas at her feet and a wry, knowing smile on her face. An up-yours to the world and a beautiful testament, a thank you from all the women who, for the past 250 years, have picked up her kick-ass mantle.If legacy is a requisite for a statue, then there can be no argument when it comes to . His achievements as a broadcaster and naturalist are without parallel. For more than 60 years he has been the nation s guide to our planet and its natural wonders. Generations of us have travelled vicariously with him to the tops of mountains, the bottoms of oceans, to deserts, rainforests and the icy expanses of the poles. We have crawled into caves, climbed trees, burrowed into termite mounds, scrabbled under hedges. We have been shown that even in the most inhospitable of places, as well as right on our own doorsteps, there is life, everywhere, on Earth.And once Attenborough has helped us make that discovery, there is no need for hyperbole, for a stream of trump-card statistics, because he knows the natural world can speak for itself. He knows it can leave you speechless, breathless with delight, and he allows us that moment, so that when he goes on to explain that every living thing, from the vast to the tiny, from the magnificent to the nondescript, has a role, a purpose, we don t simply understand why that is important   we care.And by opening our eyes and making us care, Attenborough has been able to educate and inspire and influence people of all ages and all backgrounds. There are   and will be for a long time to come   scientists, conservationists, naturalists, and broadcasters who will cite Attenborough as their role model, who will take up his baton and ensure that for future generations there will still be life on Earth.I first came across  in 1999, when I was a student and read a book called    a very rich, poetic take on the life of this extraordinary figure and her collaboration with the inventor Charles Babbage. It opens with a scene that is imbedded in my psyche: in 1833, a young girl came across a machine that would change her life and the world for ever. That machine was the . Since then I have returned to her time and time again   her life and work are a constant source of inspiration.Lovelace is a controversial figure   historically, socially, conceptually, mathematically. While Babbage saw his machine as a calculator, she glimpsed that it could do more than simply crunch numbers, and in one set of notes she speculates on the possibility of the machine being capable of producing music. Computer historian Doron Swade sums this up very succinctly: because of her speculations, she is perhaps the first person to see that numbers could be more than just a quantity but an entity   ie, they are not just for counting apples, bananas and sheep but could represent images and music themselves   this was the first glimpse of data and code. Her insight led to an artwork of mine, in which a series of female innovators respond to a machine and release its potential. It is called the .Babbage and Lovelace were not allowed to show their machine in the Great Exhibition of 1851, but had the Difference Engine been there it would have been as important, in terms of its implications, as the locomotive. Lovelace died the following year, aged 33, a painful early death. Her doctors diagnosed hysteria brought on by the study of mathematics. It was, in fact, ovarian cancer.The idea of a monument to her is an incredible one, and important, too. I would certainly relish the challenge. In India, if a man dies, the woman throws herself on to the funeral pyre. If a man dies in this country, the woman just drags herself into the kitchen and says:  Seventy-two baps, Connie. You slice, I ll spread. And there we are. The British, as seen by , in all their defining emotional and linguistic parsimony. She saw the best, worst and every nuance in between in us, beamed them through the prism of her talent, and the results prostrated us with laughter at the glory, absurdity and bleakness of our national way of life. How can we not publicly recognise a woman who so recognised us?Plans to put up , possibly in character as Bren from Dinnerladies, have stalled, but it is hard to imagine that there won t be one somewhere in the north ( The north! The north! I never marched from Jarrow, but those men s feet ache in my heart! , as Jim Broadbent, playing the professionally boreal author Wood encounters at a party, puts it, shortly before revealing that he lives in Chiswick). She moved down south 15 years before she died, but all of her sensibility and every one of her cadences were, and will be for ever, northern.Anywhere in Manchester would do. Wood also loved Morecambe, but that already has Graham Ibbeson s statue of Eric, and she deserves her own unadulterated space. We could put it somewhere that would mean something to fans, and detonate the cascade of shared memories, quotes and laughter that is the best part of revering Wood. It could be in Urmston, Kirkcudbright, the left bank of the blinkin  Limpopo or somewhere bizarre   where was it? Oh, yes; Doncaster. And it should be of the young Victoria, with a chiffon scarf round her neck with her bronze lifesaving medal attached to it, kicking the bottom of a bus stop and an inscription that reads:  Well, actually, Dennis Beasley, my auntie knows Simon Dee, so ner-ner-ner. Brian Haw was a peace activist who stood opposite the Houses of Parliament for 10 years, 24-hours a day, to remind all of the politicians of the consequences of Britain s disastrous foreign policy in the Middle East.There is probably no one else nominated who was literally a human statue. He was kicked in the head by strangers at nighttime and sworn at all day long by passers-by. Eventually, he used crutches to help him stand   and his physicality came to represent the perseverance, endurance and dedication of the peace movement in Britain. He represented centuries of proud resistance to imperialism.A statue of Haw would be a great way to remind politicians that although the anti-imperialists are in the minority, they have been here for a long time. I certainly hope that their utopian visions of England s relationship to the rest of the world will come to pass   and when that day comes, it would be great if the young people could look back and see figures such as Brian Haw.Sculptor Amanda Ward has already created a maquette, which pretty much sums up how a statue could look. She has captured Haw very well. If I was playing him in a play, that would be the expressive mould: even though he cannot support himself on two legs any more, he is still there, standing. The most obvious place for him to stand would be in Parliament Square, but he could also stand outside the Imperial War Museum.The statue could include some of the extraordinary banners and artefacts surrounding him, as well as all the badges on his hat and a megaphone in his hand. The maquette is a small-scale model of a sculpture   but I wouldn t mind if it was this size, because he is representative of the small man, the powerless man. Whether you agreed with him or not, there is something about his refusal to move that warrants a statue.Dadabhai Naoroji is remembered for being the first Asian member of parliament elected to the House of Commons, but he was much more. Known to many as the  Grand Old Man of India , he was also a leading academic, the founder of the first Indian company to be established in Britain, and an avid campaigner for minority rights. Later in life, he would mentor Mahatma Gandhi, having served for three terms as president of the Indian National Congress.Naoroji s pursuit of an egalitarian society arrived at a time when prime ministers had failed to grant minority rights, and were actively derisory about them. His parliamentary legacy and wider achievements in both industry and academia stand as an obvious rebuke to the then prime minister, Lord Salisbury, who stated that Britain was  not ready to elect a black man .If he is honoured with a statue, it should be in his former London constituency of Finsbury. Although he is currently honoured by a plaque at the town hall, and a statue in Mumbai, his legacy surely warrants greater recognition in the UK. London is home to hundreds of thousands of first-, second-, third- and now fourth-generation immigrants from the subcontinent. A statue for Naoroji would be a fitting testament to a man who paved the way for British Asians to thrive.As our country attempts to forge a  global Britain , post-Brexit, a statue of this excellent parliamentarian would be a welcome reminder of our reciprocal duties of care to the countries and people we hope to trade with on an ever greater scale.While people were trying to turn Theresa May into a new Iron Lady, another far more legitimate Iron Lady was being maligned, abused and even sent death threats. It is one of the many strange dislocations of Brexit that May, a woman who has changed her mind about almost all the big decisions in her political life, was the subject of a feverish rebranding campaign as someone who was  strong and stable , while Gina Miller, someone who has stood by her convictions, was seen as a traitor.And Miller s convictions are not as simple as merely wanting to see Brexit reversed. That is a wilful misreading of her position. She cares about democracy   not the populist, posturing kind that hides behind empty phrases such as  the will of the people  in order to abdicate responsibility, but the real kind. The sort of democracy that ensures that the mechanisms of government are empowered to properly further the interests of their voters, rather than be a crude club for them. A democracy that reminds us that politicians are our representatives, not our delegates.We have heard a lot about British values since the EU referendum. I am still not sure what British values Brexit represents, apart from misplaced nostalgia. If Brexit s British values are meant to include independence from group think and a dignified self-assurance in the face of a mob, then no one embodies them more than Miller. Give her a statue, wrought of iron, and erect it at the steps of the High Court of Justice.Zaha Hadid was a pioneering architect and artist who created a totally unique language, and I have no doubt that her work will be remembered for decades and centuries to come. She also had immense courage, determination and energy, and completely changed what was previously a male-dominated profession. At the Serpentine gallery, we were honoured to have collaborated with her on many projects; she was a trustee of the gallery, she designed the Serpentine Sackler, and we held an exhibition of her early works just after her death, the final project we planned together during her lifetime.I think one of the things that makes her work resonate is her experimentation. Hadid said there should be no end to experimentation, and that s our mantra, too. Monuments don t usually tend to move, but a statue commemorating her would need to reflect her spirit of dynamism and the weightless quality of her buildings: it couldn t be static.There is, of course, already a statue of David Bowie, or at least a prototype: the real, Kickstarter-funded thing is set to be unveiled in Aylesbury s Market Square next March, the latest of umpteen pieces of public art to have sprung up in the wake of Bowie s death. It is not difficult to understand why people want to see him commemorated. Quite aside from his artistic legacy and incalculable influence on music and fashion, there is a sense that Bowie had a genuine positive social impact on Britain.It wasn t just young gay fans who felt energised and emboldened by his emergence in full Ziggy drag in 1972, although it is hard to overestimate his impact upon them ( in one nonchalant move, [he] made homosexuality seem daring and colourful rather than shameful,  wrote Martin Aston in his history of LGBTQ pop Breaking Down the Walls of Heartache) but also on a vast swath of previously marginalised misfits: no matter how weird and alien you felt, you couldn t be as weird and alien as Bowie and his band looked. Indeed, you could argue that Bowie represented Britain as we would like it to be seen: inclusive, eccentric, innovative, always moving forward and changing.There s something deeply irritating about Peter Tatchell   and that s the beauty of him. His sea-green incorruptibility gets under the skin. He has a single-mindedness of purpose, which makes you know that he will never compromise with prejudice and injustice, so you might as well get on and recognise that he is right. When he tried to perform a citizen s arrest on Robert Mugabe for his human rights abuses, even the Daily Mail had to admit a smidgen of respect.The change in attitudes to homosexuality has been so sudden in this country that it is difficult to remember the courage Tatchell showed when Aids provoked irrational paranoia about gay men and when Thatcher brought in section 28 banning teachers from portraying gay relationships in a positive light.Yes, there were out actors and singers, but gay politicians bore the full brunt of vitriol from the hypocritically prurient and judgmental British press. Anyone who dared to suggest that homosexuals should be treated equally under the law was derided as dangerously immoral, branded as a member of the  loony left  and hounded out of office. Tatchell knows this better than any. He was defeated as the Labour candidate in the Bermondsey byelection in 1981 thanks to a hateful campaign by the Liberals, whose leaflets referred to  a straight choice . He was assaulted by neo-Nazi thugs for campaigning for LGBT rights in Russia.Tatchell s courage has been vindicated. We now have an equal age of consent, same-sex marriage, gay adoption and anti-discrimination laws. The politicians who brought in those changes (Blair, Brown and Cameron) would not be his heroes, but even they would admit they owe him a debt of gratitude.The life of multicultural Britain can be divided into two distinct periods: BL and AL, or Before Lawrence and After Lawrence. In the BL period   before, that is, the murder of Stephen Lawrence in 1993   minority Britons would proclaim that they perennially received unfair treatment from the authorities. The standard response was that the complaints were overblown and that the real issue was too many chips on shoulders.Then came the Macpherson report, the culmination of the Lawrence family s campaign to expose the racism, indolence and institutional hostility that led to Stephen s murder and the Met s failure to catch his killers. Suddenly there was the evidence, for all to see, not just of the attitudes and failures in Stephen s case, but of the mindset that underpinned widespread discrimination in Britain.The problem hasn t gone away, but in the AL era, we no longer deny the problem exists. Doreen Lawrence, now a peer, now a tireless community leader, dragged us to that new reality. A statue is the least she deserves. was very influential in Britain: he established a discipline   cultural studies   and a journal   the New Left Review. He was very involved with the inauguration of Channel 4, arguing for access, and that too many voices were excluded from the main bastions of British broadcasting. He was part of the establishment of the  in Rivington Place, east London, and involved in important inquiries into policing. He was a theorist as well   a figure respected in the academies, who also did much work outside of the academy, to build the cultural mix we take for granted in Britain today.In my film , Hall takes Fanon s ideas about depersonalisation and translates them for a contemporary audience. He was very sophisticated at that   explaining questions around racism so that everyone could understand. But I wouldn t want to confine his works to race, because he was also a spokesman for the cultural left in this country.His ideas were prophetic; in the early 90s, he was already talking about questions of identity production, violence or terrorism, how the media creates moral panics and how migration is used as a red herring, especially in times of political crisis. All are relevant to Brexit.I think he would be rather horrified by a statue of himself, because he was very much about his ideas and keeping them alive. His books, his writings,    those are all ways in which we might want to memorialise his legacy.When Danny Boyle outed himself to the Guardian in 2013 as a republican, the film-maker had a suggestion for who might replace the monarch as head of state. Why,    she who had done such a majestic turn in Boyle s 2012 opening ceremony for the London Olympics.After all, Rowling had to her name a mammoth achievement, a series of novels that had found global success, winning over a generation of children to the joys of reading and whose characters had secured a place in the national imagination. She was also a serious philanthropist, funding action for orphans, for single parents and for those living with MS. And she was that rare billionaire who paid all her taxes.All that might not be enough to have earned Rowling the throne, but it surely entitles her to a statue. She embodies the admirable virtues of determination, creativity and generosity   all of which deserve public celebration.As for its location, I am with the anonymous reader below. The Scottish capital is where, as a single mother living on benefits, Rowling wrote the Potter novels, but it is also the home of the    the MS centre established with the help of a ?10m donation from the author and named after her mother, who died from the disease aged 45.There is one more reason why Rowling is the ideal candidate for a major public landmark. On Twitter, she has become a fierce opponent of Brexit, of Donald Trump and of Scottish nationalism. Which means any statue of her would be controversial. And what s a new statue without a big old row?There is something paradoxical about a statue to celebrate the life of . She was so dynamic, energetic, and even restless, that she would never allow herself to be imprisoned by the fixed shapes carved by a stonemason. Somehow, any memorial would need to be a cinematic statue to convey her true determination and spirit. She would also have laughed at the idea of the reverence implicit in a dusty statue. She cared passionately about the issues that animated her, and the people she sought to help, but she never set herself on a pedestal, let alone a plinth, or apart from anyone. She would have laughed herself to pieces at the idea.The whole basis of her political work was cooperation, to break down divisions in communities, at Westminster and even between nations. That meant searching for the best in everyone, drawing it out, listening and looking for a human language to create shared ground. Most responded to that humanity.It did not make her views bland, or anodyne mush. Her views on humanitarian intervention in Syria, such as UN aid drops, took her to difficult places that would make the current Labour leadership uneasy. Politicians  equivocations over Brexit would have frustrated her.Her politics were led by values, not tribes. At a time when forces of hate and division have been unleashed, she stood for cooperation, and in the end cooperation is the prerequisite for a successful democracy. She was a modern democrat, and for that reason she was killed, and for that reason she requires our memorial.What might a statue of the painter  look like? If the idea is to honour him, it could scarcely be a simple, realistic bronze figure. Bacon tore the human figure apart. His meaty existential vision of a godless world is spattered with blood, semen and faeces in paintings of lovers wrestling, popes in glass prisons and flesh that looks bomb-damaged. A statue of him should be similarly brutal. Fortunately, there is an obvious candidate. His admirer Damien Hirst would surely love to put up a disembowelled bronze colossus near Bacon s old Soho hangouts.Whether Bacon would have wanted such an honour is another question. He was not the kind of artist who flaunts a positive contribution to society. His art is utterly preoccupied with personal obsessions   including Nazi regalia   and gleefully elitist in its painterly passion for the grandeur of baroque art. His ghost would almost certainly urinate on such a statue   probably not even aggressively, just when blind drunk.This is why if anyone should have a statue, it is Bacon. There are too many celebrations of the virtuous. Bacon was the kind of subversive reprobate we should remember. Or is he to be honoured as a gay man who painted explicitly years before the 1967 Sexual Offences Act? That makes him sound like the soft-centred Bacon played by Steve Pemberton in the TV comedy . The joke is that Pemberton plays Bacon as a nice, positive man, whereas his art and biographical legend suggest the opposite. Bacon is not someone to sentimentalise   it would be an insult to his tragic art. A statue of him should be as grotesque and troubling as the man himself.																																											