Dame Kiri Te Kanawa has announced her retirement from public performance after a career that has spanned almost five decades.The world-renowned soprano, 73, said she had stopped performing a year ago but had not revealed her decision until now. it had taken her five years  to say the goodbye in my own mind  but wanted to decide  when it was going to be the last note .Her final performance was a concert in the Australian city of Ballarat last October:  Before I d gone on, I said, right, this it. And that was the end. She said she did not miss singing.  I ve had such an amazing career. I don t want to hear my voice   it is in the past. When I m teaching young singers and hearing beautiful young fresh voices, I don t want to put my voice next to theirs. The New Zealand-born performer shot to fame in 1971 after being cast as the Countess in The Marriage of Figaro at Covent Garden. She became an international household name after singing Handel s Let the Bright Seraphim at the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer in 1981. The performance was seen by one of the largest TV audiences for a singer in history   an estimated 600 million. In 2006, she sang Happy Birthday to the Queen at the Commonwealth Games in Australia. Te Kanawa is one of New Zealand s greatest musical exports. She was born Claire Mary Teresa Rawstron in Gisborne on the North Island and was adopted when a few weeks old by Thomas Te Kanawa, a M ori, and his wife, Nell, who was of Irish origin. Her recording of the Nuns  Chorus from the Strauss operetta Casanova was New Zealand s first gold record.Her crossover appeal saw her record the theme song for the 1991 Rugby World Cup, held in the home nations and France. World in Union, which reached number four in the UK charts, became synonymous with the competition as Pavarotti s Nessun Dorma had with the football World Cup a year earlier. In 2013, she appeared in Downton Abbey, playing Australian soprano Dame Nellie Melba. She was created a Dame Commander of the British Empire in 1982 and awarded the Order of  in the 1995 Queen s birthday honours list. only to come back. In August 2009, five years after singing in Samuel Barber s 1958 work Vanessa at the Los Angeles Opera   a performance many considered would be her swansong   she announced she would return in 2010 before calling it a day. Te Kanawa said her last opera would be playing the Marschallin in Der Rosenkavalier by Richard Strauss, one of her signature roles, at the Cologne  in Germany, in April 2010. She said at the time that she was retiring because the discipline was  exhausting .In 2013, the singer  such as , saying it took years of commitment and study to become a professional singer. There s got to be a period of study, from age 16 to 22, and then it moves along. You can t just think:  Oh, I can sing in the bathroom, I ll be fine tonight on stage.  Not at all. There is such a demand on the voice for it to be able to produce night after night. It s the building up of the muscles that make that pair of vocal cords really work,  she told the Radio Times.Nine years earlier, she created the Kiri Te Kanawa Foundation  to provide financial and mentoring support for outstanding NZ singers to develop international careers at the highest level .She said it was for New Zealanders  who have complete dedication to their art .																																											