David Hammons, Betye Saar and Frank Bowling are among the many important artists in this epic and intense journey through black art in a racially divided America. The civil rights era saw similar rifts of race to those tearing at the soul of the US today. Here is how the struggle for justice played out in art that time. , London, until 22 October.This is a terrific voyage into the secret world of one of Earth s living wonders. , London, until 28 February.Not many works of art ever made can compare with Caravaggio s paintings for truth, immediacy, power or compassion. , Edinburgh, until 24 September.Hans Holbein s portraits and a drop-dead Leonardo da Vinci masterpiece are the highlights of this slightly rambling tour of old master drawings. , London, until 22 October.Last chance to see this profound and beautiful survey of a modern great. , London, until 10 September.Mantegna was court artist to the rulers of the lakeside city of  in northern Italy. His monuments there include an amazing illusory ceiling painting of a skylight thronged with  and his own fine house, modelled imaginatively on Roman architecture. Mantegna was one of the most erudite Renaissance artists in his sincere study of ancient Rome. Like his masterpiece , at Hampton Court Palace, this depiction of the ancient mystical religion of Cybele is closely based on his own reading of classical sources. It mimics the look of a Roman sarcophagus, with the procession painted to look like stone carving   but Mantegna magically combines this grey relief with swirling red and yellow faux-marble. This is one of the very last works of a true giant of the Renaissance. , LondonA stash of 130 photographs by the Belgian surrealist  have gone on display for the first time at Latrobe gallery in Victoria, Australia. This one shows Magritte with a painting of the French crime fiction hero Fant?mas   a piece sadly destroyed in the second world war.Book now for two forthcoming Guardian masterclass events. On Saturday 26 August, join Jonathan Jones for a , on which he will talk about how to interpret some of his favourite works of art, and point out some of the secrets of their creation. And on 24 September, art scholar Edgar Tijhuis will lead a full-day course on  at Kings Place, London. Book now to secure your place. Our A-Z of Art series continues   .And .To follow us on Twitter: 																																											