Did you ever come across a beautiful woodland clearing and think:  I know what s missing here: a huge pile of Lego ? This week, the teams must build a spectacular display for an Essex nature walk, possibly incorporating a Madagascan crocodile and, under the watchful eyes of guest judges  and Lego artist Sean Kenney, as many miniature plants and creatures as can be made in 45 minutes, using just 15 bricks each. This week s scenes from life at Harrop Fold highlight the work of the school s student development team. It s their job to deal with every kind of teenage problem imaginable, something they do with a kind of tough love/grace that s hugely impressive to see. Those who fetch up at the team s door include 15-year-old Mia, who s seven months pregnant; Kodie, threatening to quit school pre-GCSEs; and outburst-prone Year 8 student Katelyn. Tracking emergencies minute-by-minute, this often heart-in-mouth series   following the West Midlands Ambulance Service, which deals with around 3,000 calls a day   is a monument to the competence and compassion of frontline  staff working in the most difficult circumstances. Among the tense cases tonight: a seemingly routine stomach pain callout escalates, while medical dispatcher Steph finds herself in charge of an unexpected roadside delivery. This new series sees Gordon Buchanan join societies who live alongside predators. Tonight, it s the Pacific Owarigi islanders and their relationship with sharks.  When you see a shark, look it in the eyes,  advises one fisherman. Buchanan is hoping it won t come to that: he s game but hapless, sustaining minor injuries and struggling with spear fishing. It s charming but melancholy; what s striking is how finely honed   and fragile   the symbiosis is. First episode of the second series of this drama, which maintains the central conceit of the first   tempestuous former police officer operates safe house for informers and others requiring protection   but with Stephen Moyer replacing Christopher Eccleston, and Anglesey swapped in for the Lake District. In tonight s episode, the proprietor of the titular refuge finds his antennae twitching when a crime eerily evocative of one that he investigated while on the force occurs. This new series looks pretty decent, if only for the understated presence of , especially in the incongruous setting of the Rocky mountains. He plays Jim Worth, a Briton who moves to Canada to become police chief of a small town about to be invaded by a big oil company, for whom Christina Hendricks s Mrs Bradshaw provides corporate liaison. But when his family come under attack, he reverts to an alter ego he was supposed to have left behind. Issa s failed  ho-tation  policy is at the centre of a deliciously awkward episode in which all the main characters are deceiving themselves. After an explicit pep talk to herself in the bathroom mirror, Issa tours the men in her life, failing to achieve carefree satisfaction at every turn. Meanwhile, Molly is in hot but risky territory with her best male friend, and Lawrence endures a subtle humiliation at work: his (white) bosses like his app pitch a little bit too much. (John Carpenter, 1996) 9pm, TCMKurt Russell does a second turn as Snake Plissken, the hero of Escape from New York. Snake must now assassinate president s daughter AJ Langer, who is in a futureworld Alcatraz called LA Island for stealing a fearsome gadget. A bit predictable, but a combination of Pam Grier, Steve Buscemi and Peter Fonda helps lighten things up.  10am, Sky Sports Cricket. Day one of the series-concluding third Test at Lord s.10.30am, Sky Sports Golf. Coverage of the opening round of the contest, which was won last year by Sweden s Alex Nor n. 12.30am, Sky Sports Main Event. The new season kicks off at Foxborough, Massachusetts.																																											