Drawing from the Artist Rooms  collection, this free exhibition at Tate Liverpool showcases 20 of , moving from his early love of landscapes to his regularly  homaged  pop art paintings. Also on display will be his three-screen film installation, inspired by a two-week stint at Universal Pictures in 1969. Nearly 30 years after  s death from a heroin overdose, the first large-scale UK exhibition of his pioneering neo-expressionism opens. Featuring more than 100 works alongside rare photography, film and archive material, the exhibition will aim to showcase the gonzo spirit of the artist, DJ, poet, musician and Madonna s former boyfriend. Best to book in advance.Having assuaged fans  fears of a dodgy reunion cash-in with , , Nancy Whang, Al Doyle et al arrive in the UK for a whistlestop tour, starting on 16 September at Manchester s Warehouse Project. Save some energy for new song Emotional Haircut, basically this album s Drunk Girls or North American Scum. Having closely analysed  in season one, this properly geeky, exquisitely detailed podcast returns with an even more daunting task: unpacking every song on , an album that muses on the underbelly of fame and power and features nearly every musician on the planet. The enigmatic  and his band of merry men return with their appropriately titled fifth album, V. Co-produced alongside Adele s mate Paul Epworth, and featuring song titles such as Ghost, Point of No Reply and Weighed Down, it doesn t sound as if they ve lightened up much, to be honest. Wail along to the sky-scraping choruses while wearing a black blouse and drainpipe jeans from 22 September. , British-Canadian comedian Mae Martin takes her Dope tour (that s the title, not a description) around the UK, starting in London s Soho theatre.After terrifying carnivores with this year s , erstwhile Popworld presenter Simon Amstell returns (awkwardly, obviously) to the stage for his fifth standup tour, What Is This?. Apparently, the show focuses on beauty, intimacy, freedom, sex and love, ie all the themes he dealt with on Popworld.Panto regular  takes on a role written specially for him by the late four-time Olivier award-nominated writer Stephen Clark. Billed as a black comedy, it centres on an unsettling dinner party for two. Based in the heart of the Peak District, this bonkers biennial event showcases new cinema, digital culture and art via site-specific installations, field trips   weather-proof footwear and an open mind are required for some events   and cinema screenings (why not watch the terrifying    a film about flesh-eating, cave-dwelling creatures   in an actual cave?). The ambitious programme has five strands   Strata, Dis-location, Listening to the Dark, Deep Time and Freefall. Nosey parkers assemble! This weekend, 800-odd venues not usually accessible to the general public fling open their doors and allow us plebs a chance to poke around. Buildings range from the Crossrail Place Roof Garden to the Thai-style  and a swing bridge in Greenwich. 																																											