During rehearsals for , I ve sometimes felt that Harold Pinter was trying his hardest to disprove . The play depicts three men   a tramp named Davies and two brothers, Mick and Aston   who each in their own way seem trapped entirely in their own individual worlds. The plot is minimal: Aston brings Davies back to his junk-filled flat after the latter has been involved in a fight. They proceed to try and work out a way of living together, but any chance of connection is persistently disrupted by Aston s protean and unpredictable brother, Mick, who torments, deceives and bullies Davies at every opportunity.The story is absurdist, but despite having been  it also feels tragically relevant for today s world. Davies s homelessness is acutely poignant in the context of the. And it is impossible, in the current climate, to tell any story about the search for a home without feeling aware of the shadow cast by the burnt husk of .What is most pertinent, though, is the fact that time and again in the play, Davies s status as an outsider is reinforced by the hostility he encounters from Mick. This has striking resonance in a world where we see a virulent and xenophobic nationalism arising in response to a global refugee crisis and the perceived challenges of mass migration. And what makes this issue feel particularly alive in our rehearsal room is the fact that the actor playing Davies, Patrice Naiambana, is himself a migrant to the UK. Patrice originally came to this country from Sierra Leone and, having lived in a number of different countries throughout his life, has an acute sense of his position within the UK as that of  an outsider looking in .When you read the script through the prism of a migrant s experience, it suddenly brings all sorts of things in the play to life. Early in the story, Davies admits that he has been going under the assumed name of  Bernard Jenkins , and when asked where he was born he quickly becomes defensive. It would be easy to assume from this that the character is just an inveterate liar. But is it actually a sign of a much deeper identity crisis? Perhaps, in his desperation to fit in and to be accepted, he has had to construct an entirely new version of himself. In this context, his evasiveness about his origins becomes a survival mechanism in a hostile world. On numerous occasions during the play, Davies tells us that his  papers  are in Sidcup   he says he left them there 15 years ago and has not yet got around to getting them back. On the surface, this might seem to be evidence of an epic capacity for procrastination. But perhaps he is actually avoiding going to get them because he worries that they are no longer there. As a migrant or an asylum seeker, the question of whether or not you have the correct papers can be the difference between being able to start a brand new life and being forcibly returned to an existence you have tried desperately to escape.Clearly when Pinter wrote the play, he hadn t intended for the part to played as an African migrant. But I do wonder whether he had imagined Davies to be an Irish or, given his own background, Jewish immigrant. After all, both groups of people have long been the victims of prejudice and discrimination in this country   and a desire to assimilate would fit with much of Davies s behaviour.What makes The Caretaker so remarkable is the fact that, decades after it was first written, it remains so elastic and open to new interpretation. Whether or not Pinter intended Davies to be played in this way, it works because, through the character, the play identifies something profound and universal about the human condition. Davies s anxieties might have their roots in the hidden aspects of his past, but his loneliness and fear of isolation is something we can all recognise.																																											