e has made waves in television with the smash hitand the acclaimed and controversial adaptation of his royal drama; now Mike Bartlett is hoping to make a similar splash on his return to theatre. His state of the nation play  opens at the Almeida in London next month   but whatever you do don t mention the B word. It has been presented as a Brexit play but the word Brexit isn t mentioned once,  says Bartlett.  It s as much about personal things as political. I wanted to write something about what it feels like to live in Britain at the moment, something that was clearly set in 2017. Theatre was more suited to that because in television by the time it aired the world would have moved on. The play s description on the Almeida s website is deliberately vague although Bartlett does offer further clues.  It takes place against a background of national uncertainty but it s also about a woman [ s Victoria Hamilton] making a very big decision in her life and how that affects both her family and her sense of identity. The choice of setting   an English country house   is equally deliberate.  There s something about French windows and a garden and a house that feels very like the environment that people always talk about when they think of the state of the nation and class,  says 36-year-old Bartlett.  A lot of plays about this country in the 20th century have taken place in those sorts of environments. They re a very resonant way to talk about British identity or a certain kind of British identity, which is what the play is interrogating. As always with Bartlett, however, things are not quite as straightforward as they appear.  As well as asking what do we want Britain to be?  we can also ask  what do we want a quintessentially British play to be?  and hopefully is playing with that idea and exploring it and slightly detonating it. Before that, however, comes the return of  and Suranne Jones s beleaguered GP Gemma Foster whose well-ordered, ever-so-slightly-smug life falls dramatically apart after she begins to suspect her husband (Bertie Carvel) of infidelity. The first series was a word-of-mouth hit that pulled in more than nine million viewers for its finale, making it the most watched new BBC drama of 2015. Bartlett admits that he was stunned by its success. The moment I realised it was really working was when the  families were shown watching it. In theatre you can sit and watch the audience and understand what the play is doing to them but TV goes out to all intents and purposes in silence. It was only when I saw  that I could see that some of the stuff I really hoped would work   the plot twists but also the bigger questions   were really landing and making for uncomfortable sofa viewing. It s an extreme situation but I think people relate because almost everyone who has ever had a relationship knows what it feels like to feel betrayed. Given the explosive yet deeply satisfying finale was he tempted to leave it there and ratings be damned?  I did know that the second series had to be a new thing on some level,  he says with a laugh, adding that he was determined not to simply retread old ground.  This series deals with divorce and a child trapped between two parents and with what happens after you ve invested your entire passionate self into creating a positive marriage and then that s broken up. Because all that passion doesn t go away it just goes in a different direction. My hope when writing it was that if we had pitched series two as a new show with entirely different characters it would still have been greenlit. That said, fans of the  oh my God did she/he really just do that?  moments that turned the first series into such much-watch television should rest assured they are still there.  Often when you re going through this kind of thing it can feel like you re going crazy and the world has detonated and I wanted to reflect that,  Bartlett explains.  When what s at stake are the things that are most primal to us   our children, our emotions, our choices   then we do crazy stuff. So yes, it s enjoyable to watch and has big rollercoaster peaks and troughs but, I hope, it s also got truth to it. While his first love remains the stage, Bartlett is increasingly at the top of every television executive s shortlist: next year will see the arrival of , a three-part mini-series starring Adrian Lester and John Simm for ITV and the six-part newspaper drama , , controller of BBC1 drama commissioning, as a prime example of the new  aspirational  dramas the channel hopes to create. I d love to say it s going to restore journalists  reputations but I m not convinced it will,  Bartlett remarks drily of , which follows the fortunes of two newspapers not a million miles from the  and the  in the post-hacking era.  What it does do is interrogate why news is important and how we cover it. It s also very much a workplace drama set in a very distinct workplace in a time of uncertainty. I know that people might expect the liberal left broadsheet are the heroes and boo the tabloid but it s more complicated than that. Part of the fun is never letting an audience know which way the show sits. , which covers the fallout after Lester s surgeon fails to save the life of Simm s son after a stabbing, similarly rejects easy conclusions.  I was fascinated by the idea that when you go to a hospital you have to give yourself or your loved one over to someone you ve never met before and completely trust them more than you trust anyone else in your life,  he says.  What then happens if the outcome isn t what you d hoped? I was very clear when writing  that we were never going to land on one opinion as the right one. We re legitimately telling both stories at the same time. Yet for all that Bartlett loves the democracy of television    It s the ultimate Shakespearean model of we re going to gather up as many people as we can of all different types, tell them one story and try to take them to a place which is further than they wanted to go    he stresses that theatre, now more than ever, is one of our most contemporary art forms.  Twenty years ago, we didn t have mobile phones so every room we went to was almost like a little theatre. There were no other screens, no other distractions. Now no room is like a theatre, and that s placed it in a very different, vital and important place. 																																											