The Children Act is a high-minded, stately and rather  drama, directed by Richard Eyre and adapted by  from his 2014 novel; it stars  as a brilliant and widely admired judge, Fiona Maye, on whose decisions the fate of various barristers and clients depend. Her name could be a playful pun. Fiona’s ruling in a uniquely painful case concerning a desperately sick teenage boy coincides with her own marital crisis, which we are given to understand is crucially bound up with her childlessness. This is the second McEwan adaptation of the Toronto festival in fact, the other being his , and rather like that movie this is bracingly intelligent and civilised, with very good actors directed with clarity and care. There is at all times an elegant exposition of detail. But just as with Chesil Beach, I felt that there is something a little desiccated about the action, something self-conscious and pedagogic in its address to the audience. This is a world of successful, well-off people working late at night in tastefully furnished homes listening to classical music while their quizzical spouses ask if they are coming to bed. We see a semi-breakdown in public, a climactic private scene with tears, but never a real explosion of energy. For me, The Children Act comes to life most passionately in a relatively unimportant montage early on in the movie: Fiona is smartly despatching a series of lazy and dodgy lawyers and plaintiffs appearing in front of her. There is great wit and style here, and of course no lack of wit and style in Emma Thompson’s performance – it is a cousin, perhaps, to her radical lawyer Gareth Peirce in Jim Sheridan’s 1993 film In the Name of the Father. The case itself could hardly be more contemporary and urgent, with parallels to the  case. Fiona is asked to rule on the matter of the married parents (played by Ben Chaplin and Eileen Walsh) of a boy, Adam (Fionn Whitehead) just shy of 18 years old and adulthood, who is suffering from cancer. They are Jehovah’s Witnesses and will not permit him the simple blood transfusion which would save his life. But because Adam is a legal minor, Fiona can make decisions in his interests which would go against the parents’ religious scruples – which Adam appears to share. Almost every week, Fiona has to deal with some Solomonic dilemma and she does so with enormous professionalism and conscientiousness. But it has taken a terrible toll on her marriage and her academic husband Jack – a slightly sketchily written role with which  does his best – candidly tells her he’s thinking of having an affair. He moves out and as Fiona grapples with the crushing ethical dilemma, she must also think what her life has been about. It is a highly watchable drama of the highly educated public-servant class – it would make a good stage-play – and the film is put together with an intelligence which saves it from being preposterous, although that’s a bit of a close thing. There’s a shrewd eye here for the pageantry and complacency of the English law: Jason Watkins has a nice role as Fiona’s simpering clerk. As for Fiona’s fraught relationship with Adam itself, it stems from her sensational and irregular decision to leave the courtroom and talk to Adam himself on his hospital bed. (Wouldn’t Adam be required to be on oath somehow, the way a courtroom witness would? Wouldn’t someone insist on an official court record of their conversation? Well, perhaps not – or perhaps the flouting of rules at this stage is the point. The film is impeccably researched.) Yet the drama suggests that this is all driven at some level by the fact that Fiona has no children, and some may not agree with the implication that childlessness is obviously problematic psychologically, and therefore serves as a dramatic explanation for her behaviour. Well, in fact it is not the sole explanation – there is Jack’s own behaviour and the happenstance of Adam’s interest in some certain poignant writings of Yeats. The Children Act is concerned with love, intimacy and moral responsibility and it is refreshing to see a movie which sets itself standards of this sort. But there is also something a little too neat in the way all these things are wrapped up. Emma Thompson’s performance, so elegant and vulnerable, carries the picture.