If a podcast can be at once disturbing and relaxing, Within the Wires (Night Vale Presents/iTunes) falls right between the two. A new season of the audio drama has just started, and it is as immersive as storytelling gets.Last season comprised 10 relaxation tapes that were sinister and surreal. They quietly laid a bloody trail of horror. The new season is an equally unnerving take on museum audio guides. The first instalment is set in the  and narrated by Rima Te Wiata, who plays an artist talking about the work of her mentor, the mysterious Claudia Atiero, who disappeared suddenly. She paints a picture of a parallel world, after “the great reckoning” – a revolution that changed the way people lived. There are so many intriguing threads and, within half an hour, Atiero has hooked you. Te Wiata may ostensibly be describing imaginary paintings, but she also unravels the story of her disastrous interview with the artist, which ended abruptly when Atiero threw a plate against the wall in a cafe. “It broke into three large pieces and each shard was possibly worth more than I make in a year,” she says, in her soporific tour-guide voice. Like other Night Vale podcasts Alice Isn’t Dead and The Orbiting Human Circus (of the Air), this is a series that demands a second listen. What happened to the artist? And what happened to society after the revolution? It’s a world so absorbing that the click of the tape recorder at the end brings you back to reality with a bump.Researcher and music educator Anita Collins takes you through the science behind the lullabies we sing to our children. I discovered this podcast at just the right time – after weeks of “I can sing a rainbow” I was beginning to lose my mind, but this podcast saved me. Not only does it sound beautiful but it’s so informative. It is fascinating when science backs up ancient cultural traditions and the series really explores the benefits of singing lullabies, even to unborn children, and the deep connection it creates. The best thing I learned was that each culture has its own lullaby versions, so it turns out I wasn’t the only one singing the same tune night after night. The whole experience is captivating. My Home Planet is a podcast “for seekers of planet heroes”. It’s about people who do everything they can to take care of our planet. Host Natasha Milne interviews everyone from ocean warriors to explorers, conservationists and CEOs, and it amazes me that there are so many different jobs out there. Particular favourites are Kartick Satyanarayan of Wildlife SOS and Joanna Young, a glaciologist in Alaska – they’re really fascinating interviewees. Natasha understands that all issues are interrelated and that if we want to care for our planet we need to be informed about not just climate change but animal welfare, conservation, business leadership, environmental justice and everything in between. My Home Planet is a beautiful passion project, one that we all need to listen to. There is something raw and magical about We Still Like You. It’s a live show where people talk about what they’re ashamed of, and it’s incredibly intimate – you almost feel like you’re listening to something contraband. You’re not just hearing a story, you’re witnessing people reveal the worst thing about themselves while a room full of strangers reacts in real time. And boy do they react. The audience cringe and squeal and cuss. Sometimes they literally scream. It’s always empathetic but never squeamish when covering taboo topics. People will love the show for being this vulnerable but also consistently funny and punk rock as hell. There’s a back-to-school feel to the return of Politics Weekly as MPs trickle back into parliament to compare suntans, resume plotting and re-engage with the reality of Brexit. Our political editor Heather Stewart kicks off the new term, which began with a major Guardian scoop: a leaked document outlining a government plan to restrict EU migration. With London and Brussels continuing an increasingly tetchy set of exchanges, the coming weeks and months in British politics are unlikely to be dull. Can the government make any progress in Brussels? Will its minority in parliament manage to get anything done at home? Could Labour find itself in government sooner than expected? And how on earth did Jacob Rees-Mogg become the favourite to succeed Theresa May? Not all these questions have simple answers. 