eople leave gigs early for many reasons: nicotine withdrawal, trains, the high cost of babysitters. And having lost fluids and a few personal items cavorting around to a full-on rendition of  tonight, Killers fans could be forgiven for thinking that, with the band s signature tune out of the way, there couldn t be much left to see in the encore Not many bands would think of this venue as intimate. But the Las Vegas outfit are warming up   sort of   for a colossal November run through UK arenas: that s 14 of them, all sold out. The faithful have already been given a rare airing of Andy, You re a Star, which singer Brandon Flowers says the Killers haven t played live for 11 years. It is a little incongruous, hearing a relatively underfed early song flushed with the girth of the Killers  success. If anything, tonight s set suffers a touch from this oversaturation and Brixton s muddy sound. Songs that should sound lean and hungry sound sated and portly (the indie disco thrash of ). Everything has an epic lean. It s a small gripe   the Killers  cover of Joy Division s Shadowplay still manages a little minimalism   but light and shade are perhaps sacrificed to the mistaken belief that the Killers have to pile anthem upon anthem.They have them, of course. Mr Brightside unleashes a collective frenzy in both crowd and band, as glorious a treatment of sexual jealousy as you could wish for.  paces the stage, whipped into a state, channelling his narrator s nauseated misery, as animated as he has been all evening.The band then stalk off for an agonisingly long time. A lot of people need to pee: Flowers, whose keyboard is bedecked with a light-up neon pink male symbol, probably a reference to their recent single, The Man; drummer Ronnie Vannucci, and guitarist Ted Sablay (a longtime associate, filling in for the absent Dave Keuning). Then there s bassist Jake Blanton (filling in for bassist Mark Stoermer, who has retired from touring), multi-instrumentalist Taylor Milne, and three backing vocalists, who stand behind neon female symbols, adding a classy coo to proceedings.People stream out. Then suddenly,  The illustrious, praiseworthy Dr Woody Harrelson  is on stage, and introducing a brand new Killers song, The Calling, on its live debut. Like a river suddenly reversing its course, people stream back. In his mesmeric drawl, the gangly Harrelson quotes electrically from the Bible   Matthew 9:11   where Jesus sits down to eat with  publicans and senators  (sinners, in short). The actor does this very reading on the new Killers album,    the band s fifth, due out on 22 September. Happily, kismet found Harrelson in London this week. He turns what has been a solid enough Killers gig, full of hits and Andy, into a much more memorable one.The Calling, too, is striking. It s not a Bruce Springsteen tribute, one of the Killers  favourite modes since 2006 s . Instead, it packs a sleazy, Depeche Mode swing. Flowers, though, is singing about having  the last two chapters of Matthew in my hand . The band have long bounced between faith   Flowers is a Mormon   and their formative experiences in Vegas: Sin City, as it s known. Pretty much all of human nature lies in between, so it s fertile ground.  Lean into the light,  urges Flowers here, as Vannucci thumps like a caveman.The new album is set to be a departure for the Killers, not least because of the decision of two founding members not to tour (it s weird not seeing the right faces on stage). Flowers has put his storytelling bent on hold to write more personal songs. Many of them are about his wife  linked to a complicated upbringing.The Killers opened the gig with two  songs, although not necessarily ones that are about her.  does the Springsteen thing persuasively enough, spooling out American heartland pop about  played-out-traps .But  is different again, and as good a song as the Killers have written in some time. A strutting pastiche of masculinity, it borrows from David Bowie   a clever wink, as the artist was not known for his aggressive manliness   and, unexpectedly, sounds a little like Arcade Fire. Best of all, it gives the Killers lashings of funk.																																											