ere s an intriguing and cerebral quasi-genre picture from the Japanese auteur Hirokazu Koreeda. It s a complex courtroom drama that can be read at least partly as a piercing   if not precisely passionate   rebuke to the death sentence. Capital punishment is still on the statute book in Japan, . A more obviously campaigning movie might concentrate on the possibility of hanging the wrong person, or on the squalor of state-sanctioned killing. Instead, The Third Murder is more elusive and relativist. It is about fighting a losing battle to establish the facts, and to grasp a truth that appears to change shape and disappear over the horizon. In the past, Koreeda has been celebrated for his movies in the classic Japanese  family drama  style, and has said they are inspired by . But it might be his homage or theme-variation on Kurosawa s Rashomon, about the crime, which refuses to reveal itself objectively.The veteran Japanese actor Koji Yakusho plays Misumi, who is shown bludgeoning a man to death at night: the manager of a food-canning factory where he was employed. Misumi took the victim s wallet.It seems to be an obvious case: murder and robbery. Misumi has confessed. This man has, moreover, only just been released from prison, for a murder he committed in the 1980s. Despite grounds for clemency due to his confession, as a self-declared two-time killer he will almost certainly get the rope   the third murder of the title, perhaps.The state defender acting for him is Shigemori (Masharu Fukuyama), who happens to be the son of the now retired judge who considered Misumi s case 30 years before. Yet Shigemori realises there is no material evidence against his client, other than this confession. If he can get Misumi to say something else, something different, some new extenuating circumstance might induce the court to reduce the sentence from hanging to prison.But what Misumi has to say plunges everyone into turmoil. He is vague, slippery, non-committal, claiming not to know why he did it. Koreeda escalates the dismay and anxiety as Shigemori and his legal team find, to their astonishment, that Misumi has given an interview to a supermarket tabloid claiming that the victim s wife persuaded Misumi to kill him in return for a share in the life insurance. A deposit into Misumi s bank account looks as if it might be a down-payment for such a deal, but it hardly counts as proof, and there is at least as much evidence that Misumi was blackmailing the man over mislabelling cans containing spoiled food.And then there is another theory: Misumi murdered the man out of protective rage because the man was abusing his own teenage daughter, whom Misumi had befriended. But why on earth should the sane-seeming Misumi withhold these things from his own lawyer, and how on earth can they be reconciled with each other?Misumi is to offer yet another explanation as his trial begins, and the surreality of this constantly shifting story and the sheer strangeness and tension of the interview-room face-offs between Shigemori and Misumi are striking. Their faces fill the screen. Often, Koreeda s camera will linger on just one, with the other s reflection in the security glass superimposed. Shigemori is out of his mind with frustration. Is Misumi making some point against the system? I suspected a certain legal narrative used by Fritz Lang, or even that Misumi is assuming  behind bars. But it is more opaque and unknowable even than this.Perhaps The Third Murder can t be made to tie up, and perhaps the point of the film is that without video footage, or even with video footage, evidence for what happened in the past resides in human testimony: people believing other people when they say what happened. And witnesses are fallible and unreliable. The Third Murder is a captivating puzzle.																																											