erhaps the most essential film to premiere on Netflix   or indeed any other home entertainment platform   in the past week is not one of their much-hyped  exclusives . It took a stray heads-up on my Twitter timeline for me to even notice it had landed on the streaming service, after a year of waiting in vain for a UK cinema distributor to pick it up. But Bertrand Bonello s , a blackly transfixing daze of a terrorist thriller, is there now and demands your on-edge attention. Told from the side, if not the perspective, of the terrorists, it examines process and consequence with a clear, calm gaze that exacts punishment without judgment, sympathy without pity.Quite what the initially swaggering gang of Parisian youths at its centre are after, as they execute a series of bombings and shootings across the city, isn t set in stone, but the vagueness is theirs, not the film s. Between them they allude airily to Pinochet s Chile and swap revolutionary rhetoric, though their politics are as inchoate as their attacks are meticulous.  s first hour mesmerisingly tracks their best-laid worst plans with minimal dialogue and patient Steadicam fascination, a cat s cradle built from tension wire.It s in the second half, as they shelter overnight from the fallout in a deserted department store, that the gang s strategy unravels at a practical and philosophical level. Their semi-ironic capitalist revelling in luxury goods chips away at their righteousness, as the authorities inevitably circle. Bonello shoots it like a dream, an immaculate soundtrack surging at the least expected points: Willow Smith s Whip My Hair has never sounded so alien. Shot before the terrorist attacks on Paris of November 2015, it dares us to dismiss it as designer anarchy. Rather, it s a diamond-bright inquiry into activism as branding.Two of Netflix s self-stamped exclusives landed on Friday. I have yet to see Angelina Jolie s much-vaunted Khmer Rouge survival story, , but Yance Ford s documentary,  is worthy of?a solo spotlight. A shattering requiem, it laments and probes the 1992 murder of the film-maker s brother   an unarmed African American killed by a white man in a business argument, with inadequate legal consequences   with poetry and biting fury in equal measure. In the course of the film, its focus expands from one devastated family to a countrywide community still stymied by unequal justice.There is truly no elegant segue from this to  (Fox, 15), but  s banging, crashing, walloping re-electrocution of the nearly 40-year-old space-chase franchise doesn t trade in elegance. Gone is the murky self-mythologising of . It s in with trashy, face-hugging, chest-smashing thrills, as a new astronaut crew is terrorised by a familiar strain of beast, and Scott conducts the slithery tension like the old pro he is. It s left to  to mix up affairs a bit as deceptively identical androids. He brings a game eroticism and slender streak of camp to proceedings that no one else has thought to add. It s by embracing the upgraded B-horror roots of the series, however, that this improbably winds up as its liveliest entry since James Cameron s .Of the remaining releases, fans of Jessica Chastain in imperiously stilettoed, get-shit-done mode should make a beeline for  (eOne, 15), though John Madden s by-the-book Washington drama, starring the ever-watchable actor as a fierce lobbyist taking on the gun brigade, hasn t her conviction. Conventional arthouse pleasures, meanwhile, are on offer in  (Spirit, PG), a milkily handsome biopic of exiled Russian fencing master turned tutor Endel Nelis. Subtitles and Estonian-Finnish provenance notwithstanding, this follows inspirational teacher formula to comforting effect.Rather more special is Swiss animator Claude Barras s inspired  (Thunderbird, PG), in which the adorability of its stop-motion figurines barely masks the bittersweet directness of its engagement with childhood trauma. Tenderly following an abused orphan as he finds a place in an institutional community of other young outcasts, it s a family film that trusts child viewers with sometimes painful reality, as well as the mollifying powers of empathy. The great Celine Sciamma (, ) had a hand in the script, and?the frank human insight and all-ages maturity of her perspective are felt throughout.																																											