 famously lives in a grand Georgian house on Royal Avenue in Chelsea, a Grade II-listed building that he was allowed, many years ago now, to alter internally, the better that its main room   the piazza, as he likes to call it   could be triple height and expansive enough for the riding of bicycles by small children. As anyone who has even glimpsed it from the road will attest, it s an amazing space, and in his new book, , Rogers makes much of its essential conviviality. It is, he writes, often used for parties, whether to benefit a charity or for an annual celebration of the architect of the Serpentine Pavilion in Hyde Park. By way of illustration, there follow some photographs. In one, taken at Christmas, some 30 paper-hatted people can be seen sitting down for lunch, yet still there is room beside the table to move, and perhaps even to dance.For the weekday visitor, however, the feeling of the place is not so much friendly as mildly intimidating   which makes me wonder all over again if architects have any idea at all of the effect of their buildings on other people. Having entered through a metal gate on an anonymous side door, I reach the piazza by means of some equally antiseptic open metal stairs. There, I m greeted by Luiza, who  looks after the house , after which I m left alone to contemplate the Philip Gustons, Cy Twomblys and Andy Warhols that hang on its walls. Except, I m not quite alone. From high on the mezzanine above   looking up, I m just about able to read the spine of Robert Hughes s  on a bookcase   comes the sound of papers being shuffled, and a cough or two. Is this power play, I wonder, as the seconds tick by. Down below, I start to feel rather small.But perhaps this is paranoia. When he appears, Rogers is all smiles. It is a sunny morning, and he meets it like a rainbow: green shirt, blue trousers, turquoise braces, orange socks, yellowish shoes. He walks stiffly, the result of a recent accident in a taxi, but he talks quickly   too fast, sometimes. At first, we sit at a round table from where my view, beyond his shoulder, is mostly of the lovely pots his late mother made, arranged in village-like clusters, little ceramic San Gimignanos all. But when his wife, Ruthie, returns and needs the kitchen for a magazine shoot to promote her latest cookbook (she, in case you don t know, is the chef-patron of the River Cafe in Hammersmith), we move to the flat downstairs where his in-laws once lived.  This is where Renzo [Piano, the architect and Rogers s former collaborator] stays when he s in London,  he says, grinning boyishly.  He is my closest friend, practically my brother. As he used to say, we were the bad boys.  isn t Rogers s first book: there have been several others. But while those were largely theoretical, manifestos for city living and a certain kind    kind   of architecture, this one is closer to a memoir. Naturally, it includes accounts (sometimes, unintentionally hilarious accounts) of the building of his greatest designs, among them the Pompidou Centre in Paris and the Lloyd s Building in the City of London; his battles with planners, politicians and Prince Charles are all given their place. His main focus, though, is on the people, places and times that have influenced his thinking over a long and successful career (he is now 84): his Italian parents; London, in the bleak years after the war, as well as in the 80s and 90s; his beloved Florence, Milan and Trieste; his one-time partner, Norman Foster; and, of course, Ruthie,  his closest friend and intellectual partner  and the woman to whom the book is dedicated. It follows my life story,  he says,  which sounds a bit pompous but I ve always tried to communicate. I feel strongly there s more to architecture than architecture. It is about social responsibility, too, and politics. It was a pretty amazing time: the war, the creation of the welfare state  and now we re going through  In the 70s, when we built the Lloyd s Building, they were seriously thinking of moving to Frankfurt. And so, history repeats itself. What effect is Brexit likely to have on his world?  It is ridiculous. We re going to lose a very large part of the building workforce. Either houses are going to have to double in price, or we re going to have to find new ways of building them. The modern builder is only in it for profit. He is perfectly happy to build only one house if that means demand is increased. You can t ask him to change. So the government is going to have to do it. Do what, exactly? There is going to have to be more prefabrication, and people are going to have to pay more tax.  It s his belief that people will be happy to do this.  They tell us people don t want to pay more tax. But what they mean is that the rich don t want to pay more tax. The 1% doesn t want you to have a bigger house. When he saw the images of the Grenfell Tower fire, it told him that  the wealthy are all right: you don t see towers that are lived in by wealthy people go up in flames, only those of the poor . Does he wish, then, that his practice had done more social housing?  Well, we do a lot of work on prefabrication,  he says. Rogers Stirk Harbour is, he adds, built on the idea of social responsibility: partners can t earn more than nine times the lowest paid employee after two years.Nevertheless, wasn t it uncomfortable to work on a project such as  that were developed by the Candy brothers, and which may be the most expensive such complex in the world? (There is no avoiding the fact that Rogers Stirk Harbour has, in recent years, .) Yes, let s try that! That s a good one,  he says, with a laugh that may or may not be intended to cover his irritation.  No, it didn t really [feel uncomfortable]. One Hyde Park is a very rich area [in Knightsbridge, close to Harrods]. This wasn t a situation where you could either do social housing or private housing   you don t have a choice   and we did get a lot of social housing built in the postcode to go with One Hyde Park.  (This, of course, is a little disingenuous. Seventy homes were indeed built as the development s affordable housing contribution, but they are two miles away, and the Candys were no more generous than they needed to be: under planning rules the development had to include 47% social housing.)He loves London, and marvels at the way it has changed.  In the 70s, its population was down to 6 million, and everything was going wrong. Now it s arguably the greatest city in the world, an international place. It has great confidence. The spirits lift when you return to it, and in the end, all its problems are solvable.  He won t pick out a favourite building   save for his own house, which he loves for the fact that it has the King s Road on one side and what he jokingly calls  the countryside  on the other (he means the grounds of Wren s magnificent Royal Hospital). But equally, he doesn t mind letting rip, just a little, when it comes to his dislikes.  We all hate it,  he says, of 20 Fenchurch Street (AKA the  Walkie-Talkie ).  One of the problems is that it is like a tombstone. And the view from the old Tate [at Millbank, on the north side of the Thames]  the buildings [apartments, mostly] are ghastly: awful, awful. When it comes to London s skyline, however, he doesn t believe that height is what we should be worrying about.  It s about bad buildings. One of the mistakes, if I may say so, is that the space around a building is as important as the building itself: the two can t be judged apart. The twin towers in New York, for instance. They weren t great buildings, but the space between them was. It s an obvious question   and, in the minds of architects, doubtless an infantile one   but isn t the biggest problem still that architects are disconnected from the results of their designs, never having to live or work in them? I always think of Ern? Goldfinger, who spent two months living in Balfron Tower, the building he designed in Poplar, east London, in 1968, the better to evaluate the pros and cons of high-rise living   after which he scampered straight back to his lovely low-rise house in Hampstead. Well, Goldfinger was a very good architect, by the way. But yes, I think there are many who are distant from the problem, and it isn t solved by living somewhere for a few months.  Rogers has come to feel that  parks and trees are a right , and a relatively inexpensive one, to boot.  I would hope that most architects know this,  he says.  But do they? You would know better than me. When I don t answer   would it be rude to say that I m not sure they do?   he responds by asking, rather sweetly, if I would like a glass of wine.Rogers was born in Florence, still the city he knows best.  I came from a rather spoilt, upper-middle-class family,  he says. His father, Nino, was a doctor who had grown up in Venice, and his mother, Dada, was an art-lover from Trieste who had once been taught English by James Joyce. They were cultured, and highly cosmopolitan.  I wasn t called Riccardo,  he says.  I was called Richard, which was a very strange thing. But my father, you see, was totally anglophile [Nino s father, a dentist, was a British emigre to Italy]. He didn t actually wear patches on the elbows of his jackets   which is something Renzo does   but in a way, he was more English than Italian. He always dreamt of England.  Thanks to Mussolini, his dreams would become a reality sooner rather than later.In 1938, once it was clear that war was on the way, the family moved to England, swapping their elegant flat with views over the Florentine rooftops for a single room in a Bayswater boarding house with a coin meter for the heating and a bath in a cupboard   and so life switched to black and white. It was hell at first,  says Rogers.  My dad arrived with only ?800 in his pocket. There was rationing. London was smoggy and cold. But  you have to be careful how you say this. Obviously, if someone in your family was killed in the war, that was one thing. But in a way, for us boys, it was a game [he has one brother]. We didn t know about the camps, and so on. And England has never since been healthier or its society more fair.  Nevertheless, he felt his parents had let him down. On his first Christmas, his only present was a grey lead toy submarine.He hated Kingswood, the boarding school to which he was sent first, but was happier at St John s in Leatherhead (by now, the family had moved to Godalming in Surrey, and he could cycle there every day). Still, he struggled academically.  I really was backward,  he says.  Dyslexia wasn t invented then, and I was called stupid.  A private school in the 1940s, clenched and conservative, probably wasn t the place for him,  though I mixed easily and, being a boxer, knew how to look after myself . His politics, inherited from his parents, were leftist, and he shared their enthusiasm for modernism (visiting the Festival of Britain in 1951 with his mother, he marvelled at the way art and science came together in the Dome of Discovery).  They were strict in some ways. But as a teenager, they didn t mind who I slept with, so long as she was there for breakfast. I was brought up to be free. As soon as the war was over, he and his parents began spending their summers in Italy again, and at the age of 17, he began to travel alone.  I was adventurous,  he writes.  I ran with the bulls in Pamplona, and dodged ticket collectors by hanging on the outside of trains; I spent a night in the cells in San Sebastian after being arrested by the Franco-ist Guardia Civil for swimming naked in the sea.  One adventure nearly tipped into disaster, when he was arrested in Venice, supposedly for groping the wife of a man who d attacked him. (The two men fought, and Rogers again spent the night in the cells, his passport confiscated. Later, on the advice of the magistrate, he absconded, his grandfather having paid his bail   though not before two prostitutes he d met in jail had shown him around the city.)He left school in 1951, with no A-levels and no idea of what he wanted to do   and to buy himself time, he chose to do his national service immediately. Because he could speak Italian, he was posted to Trieste, then still under British and US military rule. What luck. His grandfather gave him a season ticket to the Trieste opera, and being in Italy meant he could also see more of his cousin, Ernesto Rogers, a noted modernist architect whose practice, BBPR, was in Milan. On periods of leave, he worked in the BBPR office. Once his service was complete, then, he somehow convinced the Architectural Association that even though he d failed his exams, he might be allowed to join its diploma course. He didn t draw well: by his own account, he still doesn t. But by the time he reached his final year, something had changed. He received the association s final-year prize for his project, a design for children with special educational needs in Wales.He met Su Brumwell, his first wife and the mother of three of his five sons, in his third year (she was doing a sociology degree at the LSE), and after their marriage in 1960, they travelled together to Yale, where he would take up a Fulbright scholarship to study for his master s degree. It was at Yale that he struck up a friendship with Norman Foster, also on a scholarship. Back in England, he and Su and Foster and his wife, Wendy Cheeseman, formed the firm Team 4, and  for Roger s parents-in-law, a dramatic concrete house in Cornwall that vaguely calls to mind Frank Lloyd Wright. He and Su also worked, a little later, on a home for his parents, Parkside in Wimbledon, comprising two brightly coloured single-storey pavilions with steel frames. Both are now listed. I think I would have had a go at designing for the devil at that moment,  he says, laughing. The Brumwells were, he says, the better clients. What about his parents? Can he remember the moment when they clapped eyes on the finished article? Did they love it?  Well, yes and no. My father was more concerned with practical problems: I think he was about to sue by then. It was my mother who had the eye. She loved beauty and colour.  Still, he learnt a lot from both projects:  It took six architects six years to get Creek Vean built, as well as almost bankrupting both us and our in-laws. Not much was being done for society there, and it made us think: there must be a better way. We moved to easier construction systems, and highly flexible ones, too.  Team 4, however, was dissolved in 1967.Rogers was introduced  by his doctor; they bonded immediately, and together they entered the competition to design a grand new cultural centre for Paris: the building that would become the Pompidou Centre. Having won it, they had no idea what it was that he was taking on.  Young architects are immensely naive,  he says.  I would never dream of doing it now. We had a great client, but the press gave us hell. In seven years, there were only two positive articles. I don t know how we got to the end.  Sonia Delaunay, an artist who was proposing to give a large collection of works to the museum, announced that she would rather burn her paintings than see them in the space he and Piano were designing; an elderly Frenchwoman, on discovering his identity as its architect, once hit him on the head with her umbrella. But everything changed once it opened.  It was successful, even if we made very little money out of it. Does he feel it blazed a trail, a forerunner of the ever more extraordinary museum buildings that have been built the world over ever since? He insists not.  I think we were just making the building we had to: a loose container, a great big piazza, and a facade; a cross between Times Square and the British Museum. By this point, he and Ruthie had met and had their first son. In his book, Su Rogers simply disappears, and before you know it, he s on Long Island marrying her replacement at the home of her left-leaning parents (Ruthie is American). But now he tells me how difficult his divorce was.  The most painful thing I ve ever done. I had no reason to leave Su. I just happened to fall in love with Ruthie [they met at a dinner party in London, when she was studying at the London College of Printing]. It is very difficult because the person who s left behind loses their confidence.  He and Su are, however, friends these days:  She lived here for at least a year while she was doing up her house. He and Ruthie, meanwhile, remain intensely close: in their presence, you can almost feel it. Since his practice moved to Leadenhall in the City from the building in Hammersmith that it shared with the River Cafe, it s her that he misses most:  The spontaneous cups of coffee, asking her to look over a drawing, visiting the kitchen to taste a soup.  He counts the day a  disaster  if he doesn t speak to her at least six times. They holiday every year in the Val d Orcia in Italy, and thanks to their extended family, there is rarely a bed free   though there will always be someone missing. In 2011, their youngest son, Bo, died of a seizure.  There is no recovery from the death of a child,  he writes in . Whenever they go away, he and Ruthie go up to their roof terrace, where an olive tree was planted in his memory, to say goodbye to him.After the chapter which recounts the building of the Pompidou Centre, his book loses momentum   though it s pretty funny when he describes, with a straight face, his disappointment when the board of Lloyd s refused to sign off his plan to commission a clock by the Swiss artist Jean Tinguely (you can hardly blame them: Tinguely had insisted that it would never tell the right time). He devotes too much energy to bemoaning the lack of vision of the supposed enemies of modern architecture, and not enough to addressing the matter of his own regrets (though when I ask him about this, he says:  I don t know that I do regret a major piece of my professional life. )His forays into politics are a bit irritating, too (Rogers, who joined the House of Lords as a Labour peer in 1997, has sat on several quangos, most famously the Urban Task Force; he was also an ally of Ken Livingstone during his time as the mayor of London). It is, for instance, extraordinary that he sees fit to praise John Prescott, the man who oversaw the obscenely wasteful and destructive    a blind spot that seems to be born only of the fact that, as environment secretary, Prescott pushed the recommendations of , a report Rogers helped to write.In conversation, though, the opposite is true: his energy is amazing, his stories growing ever less varnished as he goes on.  How long have you got?  he asks me. For a while, , and what Rogers regards as his chilling power over developers; they will, he says, use any excuse to lower their risk, including a daffy royal (the nearest he has ever got to debating with HRH was when he told him, after a dinner in 1984, that by his logic, Christopher Wren should have designed his extension to Hampton Court in a late medieval style to match the Tudor buildings rather than in his own baroque). But then, as he admits, there s always something. The architect s lot has never been a happy one.  Things don t change,  he says. As the dean of St Paul s told him at the opening of the Lloyd s Building in 1986, by the time Wren had been working on the cathedral for 30 or 40 years, he was so sick of people criticising him, he built an 18ft-high wattle fence to shield the works from prying eyes. Every architect will sympathise with that story,  he says. His voice, though, is rueful rather than self-pitying   as well it might be, given the splendour of our surroundings, the fact that the word  masterpiece  still appears so often next to his name.When we returned from the USA in 1963, Norman Foster, my wife Su and I had set up Team 4 with my ex-girlfriend Georgie Cheesman, and her sister Wendy. At first, we worked out of Wendy s bedroom in a two-room flat in Belsize Park. Frank Peacock, who had studied with me at the Architecural Association (literally alongside me, as our surnames made us neighbours in every class) and was a brilliant technician and draughtsman, built a box to put over Wendy s bed, so that we could use it as workspace during the day. When clients visited, friends would be roped in to pose as architects, to make Team 4 look like a larger concern than it was.As neither Norman nor I had completed our training, we were not entitled to call ourselves architects. Georgie had qualified and gave Team 4 some legitimacy, but she quickly saw that Norman and I were going to be impossible to work with, so moved on. The core of Team 4 was Norman and Wendy (who fell in love with each other and married), and Su and me. Norman and I did manage to complete our registration, but only after being summoned before the Architects  Registration Council for practising without a licence.Marcus Brumwell, Su s father, had asked us to look at the plans for renovating his holiday home on the banks of a Cornish creek by the Fal estuary. We soon decided, and persuaded our client, that he needed to demolish the existing house and start again. Our designs set up a dialogue between light and shadow, between the geometry of concrete blocks and soft contours of a creekside, between modern materials and sense of place. At the same time as Creek Vean, we were working on three houses at  in Camden. We were exhausted, putting in 14-hour days, seven days a week. It s not a good way to work, but we were young, and it was the culture we were used to from those late nights at Yale. I remember saying to Su that I didn t expect to ever have a whole weekend free, but that it would be nice to have just one Sunday off, maybe every other month.Where Creek Vean was exciting and tiring, Murray Mews was dispiriting. The clients had very different requirements or changed these over time: one of them, Naum Gabo s stepson Owen Franklin (our GP), wanted a bachelor pad full of art and sculpture at the outset, but had married and had children by the time the house was finished. His needs had changed, but the building had difficulty meeting these.The budgets were very low and the contractor was incompetent and keen to cut corners: everything leaked, walls weren t square, we discovered a small river running through the sunken dining room in Owen s house, and chimneys missed fireplaces. I remember one horrendous site visit with one of the clients. First of all he poked at a piece of what looked like asphalt, to discover it was just a copy of the  painted black. Then we went downstairs, where the U-bend of the lavatory was visible. The owner hit it to make a point, and it broke, showering him in sewage. Charlie Chaplin couldn t have done better. John Young, who had just joined us, prepared intricately detailed plans for tiling the bathrooms, showing how every tile would fit. These were ignored, and used to wrap fish and chips. I walked off site one day and went to sit under a tree on Hampstead Heath, and burst into tears. I wondered, not for the first or last time, whether I was really cut out to be an architect. We couldn t continue to work like this. Creek Vean and Murray Mews pushed us to fundamentally rethink our approach to technology and the process of construction. Technology is the raw material of architectural expression, the equivalent of words in poetry. Without a proper understanding of words there is no poetry, and architecture starts from an understanding of technology, materials, the process of construction and a sense of place. Norman and I were modernists, but were inspired by the amazing heritage of early industrial buildings, from  at Coalbrookdale in Shropshire, to the incredible lightness and delicacy of Brunel and Paxton, who used iron, steel and glass   the hi-tech materials of their day   to create great station sheds, bridges, glass houses and crystal palaces.Norman and I had studied the use of manufactured components in Buckminster Fuller s work, in  and  s early designs, in the open-ended architecture of the , in  s prefabricated steel structures, and in modern industrial buildings and machinery. Though industrialisation had created countless new possibilities for building and construction, many of the buildings we saw in 1964, and see today, still use tools and techniques   bricks, mortar and timber frames   that have been used for 500 years or more. As Peter Rice, the Irish engineer who became an indispensable partner on the Pompidou Centre and so many other projects, liked to say, traditional techniques have been used so many times that you don t give them any thought; radical architecture has to start from first principles.Our experience with Creek Vean and Murray Mews had shown the limits of traditional technologies; the challenges of working with  wet trade  contractors   those deploying traditional techniques of bricks and mortar on site   even when they were competent; the time taken, and the risks of constructing fixed buildings for clients whose needs changed over the years. In 1969, a few years after we had completed these projects, I wrote a manifesto arguing for change. At a time when we needed 400,000 houses a year in the UK (a curiously similar challenge to  nearly 50 years later), it made no sense that it had taken six architects four years to build four houses. We wanted to create buildings that took advantage of industrialised technology, that were general-purpose not tailor-made, so that the same shell could cater for different clients  needs or for one client s needs changing over time.  and , the house we built for my parents in Wimbledon, were our first built expressions of this new direction. This article was amended on 29 August 2017 to add the name of engineer Peter Rice to a caption.																																											