ever let it be said that a good pun doesn t get you places. New ITV2 reality show Bromans has already made  around the world thanks to the . Now, the first episode of Bromans is upon us. Its premise is simple   some lunk-headed TOWIE-types play-act as Romans for prizes   but can it stand up to the strength of its name?ITV2 is desperately selling Bromans as the new Love Island, though you suspect that s only because  was very popular very recently. Although the casts share some similarities   when you first meet them, roaring and gurning and kissing their own biceps, your immediate reaction is  It was nice knowing you, humanity    the elaborate setup puts Bromans squarely in the lineage of other under-appreciated high-concept reality shows like Tool Academy,  and .This is no bad thing. Those shows are all straight-down-the-line reality pieces elevated beyond measure by their total commitment to a ridiculous premise, and so it goes for Bromans. It contains absolutely nothing you haven t seen before, but its true selling point is the juxtaposition between contestant and premise.Fortunately, in this sense, Bromans doesn t disappoint. Somehow, it has managed to source some of the bro-iest knuckleheads ever assembled on television (it s honestly like ITV2 has genetically engineered an endless succession of Joey Essex clones) and let them loose in a world they don t understand. One of them   already my favourite   marvels at the setup by exclaiming  I ve gone 2,000 years back. I ve never gone that far back before . A few seconds later he sees a statue.  How the fuck did they carve that?  he yelps with a dumbstruck infant awe. You can understand his astonishment. Not to use a 10-pound term on a 50p show, but Bromans is a masterpiece of mise-en-scene. To all intents and purposes, it is set in ancient Rome; a slightly wobbly Up Pompeii ancient Rome admittedly, but ancient Rome nonetheless. It takes place within a sprawling set made up of pillars, street merchants and a mighty colosseum. There is also a crappy nightclub with a neon sign, but let s gloss over that.The Bromans  guide through this new world is Dominus   played by actor Tom Bell, soon to be seen in the Benedict Cumberbatch period drama The Current War   who puts in such a pitch-perfect Richard O Brien impression that you end up wishing he d hosted the Crystal Maze revival. Their trainer is Doctore, a screaming sergeant major played by David McIntosh   :  Kelly Brook s love rat ex David McIntosh admits:  I can t stop cheating on women    who exists partly to serve as the Bromans  jumped-up Crossfit instructor, and partly to inspire wild lust in their girlfriends.There are tasks, obviously. On the strength of the opening episode, they mainly involve stripping the Bromans naked, making them carry heavy things around and goading their girlfriends into having physical confrontations with each other. However, a future episode promises to force the Bromans to make casts of their genitals, so there s that too. One couple is eliminated each week, voted off by their fellow competitors. Hopefully this will sow the seeds of resentment, and subsequent episodes will be a little nastier.At heart, though   and this is the one thing that might push Bromans beyond the realms of its own gimmick   this is ultimately a series about couples under pressure. The tasks are all self-consciously stupid, but they all serve as forms of relationship stress-tests. And the fact that these people have signed up for it is entirely to their credit. My pervading thought while watching Bromans was  You wouldn t catch me dead on this . That s partly because I possess a rudimentary level of dignity, but also because I don t want to examine the flaws of my relationship in public while wearing a toga. I get the sense that not every Broman couple will make it out of the show intact; and this, for my sins, is why I ll keep watching.																																											