f you happen to be a football fan who is unable or just unwilling to pay for a big-money TV plan, or you re simply petrified at the prospect of the net police kicking your door in when you re watching an illegal stream, then your only other option when it comes to watching top-flight football is Match of the Day. First broadcast on 22 August 1964, MOTD has become as much a part of the British Saturday evening as fighting in a taxi rank. But it has changed   and not entirely for the better.In its glory years, it was all so simple. With debonair Des Lynam at the helm and  and  vying for the commentator s top job (plus dependable deputy Tony Gubba waiting in the wings), you never got each and every game from the day s fixture list, just the decent ones. No sitting through West Brom v Watford when Des was in the hot soccer seat. Just the best bits. Thanks for coming. Twiddle of the  tache.Today, MOTD (and most other football shows, for that matter) is needlessly protracted, relying on the thoughts of a stream of ex-players, managers and analysts, seemingly brought together by a collective fear of actually putting their vast knowledge and experience into practice in club management.Whether it s Martin Keown picking apart Bournemouth s defensive frailties or Kevin Kilbane berating the technique of players who ve actually won stuff, it has become little more than a late-night vehicle for cliches, regurgitated opinions and received wisdom ( It s your foreign players, you see? They go down too easy ).It is too simple to blame  for everything, but it has its part to play in MOTD s decline. When those 22 clubs broke away to form the new top-flight division in 1992 it changed pretty much everything, apart, perhaps, from the shape of the ball. From the transfer fees to the salaries, the stadiums to the egos, they all grew exponentially. And in the face of the coverage offered by the new kid on the block, Sky Sports, dear old MOTD struggled to keep pace.Tune in to  these days and you d be forgiven for thinking they ve relocated their studio to the bridge of the Starship Enterprise. It s all touchscreens and super slow-mo, ultra HD and holographic team lineups. Now, you get every goal and every save, every career-ending challenge and every managerial meltdown. It s football, Jim   but not as we know it.The net result is that there s precious little mystery in football any more. No longer can a veteran centre-half get away with an honest elbow in the chiselled jaw of a sprightly young striker when the ref s not looking. No more can a manager scratch somewhere he shouldn t and, as Germany manager Joachim L?w did recently, surreptitiously sniff his fingers afterwards.With cameras in every crevice and augmented-reality graphics running amok, MOTD seems to struggle to differentiate itself from the bells, whistles and fireworks coverage of the satellite broadcasters. That s why you get tired spin-offs such as MOTD2, MOTD2 Extra and MOTD Kickabout. That s why every Premier League tie is, like, the most important game ever. And that s why you have to watch Bournemouth v Burnley. .																																											