f you shone a torch round the auditorium of London s Peacock theatre in early September, venue for  s annual showcase, you might find a higher than average number of scribblers. Not just critics, but agents, casting directors and others, marking up their programmes in hope of spotting a winner. BYO s participants benefit from workshops and professional coaching from those at the top of the operatic profession. Then they re out there on stage, exposed, before the bright lights of judgment.This may have its agonising aspects, but it gives a clubbable feel to BYO shows. This 30th anniversary they have paired  s  and, sung in English, Mozart s . Weir s 1990 opera, three Scottish Gaelic tales rolled into a 100-minute piece, provides an obligingly large cast of 26, with a similar number in the chorus. The tiniest cameo can reveal a potential star.That said, you needed your wits about you to work out who was who in , briskly conducted by James Holmes, confidently directed by Stuart Barker and stylishly designed, a fairytale scene taking place beneath wooden rafters, by Andrew Riley. Weir s love of folklore and myth spins its own magic. The score is alive with choral interjections, insistent percussion, solo fiddling. Weir s voice, as ever, is distinctive and approachable.Dramatically, matters are less clear, with verbal delivery from the singers not always as sharp as it should be. When the emphasis is on ritual and pattern rather than individual character, you need all the help you can get. The third story, The Stranger, is the most substantial: a handsome stranger arrives to woo a young woman   well performed by London-based Swedish mezzo Ida R?nzl?v. Her lover turns out to be the Devil (bass Timothy Edlin). From the large ensemble, some names to note: Ian Beadle (Bridegroom), Alexandra Lowe (Bride), James Liu (in the blink-or-miss role of Narration). had strong singing all round, and some good ideas in James Hurley s production, set in a grim, unfinished tower block designed by Rachel Szmukler. Unfortunately the piece outstayed its welcome. It felt sluggish in tempo. Jokes were in short supply, with barely a hint of its essential black humour. Long pauses between scenes were injudiciously accompanied by electronic noises off   a cork-popping party, a prolonged and noisy boom   whether to set the scene or to help pass the time ( it would have passed in any case ) wasn t clear.The Southbank Sinfonia, accompanying both operas, worked hard and efficiently, but Lionel Friend s tempi were too leisurely. A tightening of reins would have transformed proceedings, since the individual elements were impressive. All the women   Charlie Drummond (Anna), Samantha Clarke (Elvira), Lauren Joyanne Morris (Zerlina)   rose to their big moments, with, between them, plenty of talent ripe for development. Felix Kemp (Masetto) and, particularly, Adam Temple-Smith as Don Ottavio stood out, as did Christian Valle as the Commendatore, whose mighty bass made a lasting impression. Jake Muffett in the title role, though a little underpowered vocally, has bags of potential. The irresistible energy and wit came from Leporello, Glaswegian Michael Mofidian, also an imaginative singer.Two end-of-season Proms on the same evening ran the gamut, in scale and mood, of this magnificently sprawling festival.  conducted the  (1903-4, revised 1906), which requires a colossal orchestra. A cartoon, reproduced in the programme, shows Mahler with an array of percussion   whip, cowbells, hammer   clutching his head and saying  My God, I forgot the motor horn    probably jolly funny in Vienna at the time.Some may have found Harding s slightly cool approach to this fate-burdened work, nicknamed  Tragic , unsatisfying, lacking sufficient conspicuous agony. Yet it released the buoyant qualities of this score   its generous, too often forgotten lyricism   saving catastrophe to the last. He chose the Andante-Scherzo order of movements; there are inexhaustible arguments for either. His decision convinced. The Viennese strings  lustrous playing of the opening melody came as balm after the shrieks and roars of the first movement. Horns, and all the brass, were fiery and brilliant. There were some blips in ensemble, but the pleasure in hearing these astounding players squashed all quibbles, without the need of a hammer blow (or as here, another of those disputed Mahlerian issues, two rather than three).The late Prom was playing Bach (broadcast live  and ). Solo instruments suit the Albert Hall. Without display, Schiff embarked on the C major prelude No 1 in the Well-Tempered Clavier Book 1. Two hours later, having traversed every key   counterpoint pure and limpid, voice-leading clear and sturdy, each tempo judged to perfection   he reached the final B minor fugue and stopped. If he used the sustaining pedal, it was so discreet you could not detect it. Not a muscle in his body appeared anything but relaxed, travelling deeper into the inexplicable mysteries of Bach s music. It was one of those unforgettable revelations.    																																											