Following the success of the first of the BBC s Robert Galbraith/JK Rowling adaptations, , here s another. This time around, troubled PI Cormoran Strike investigates the disappearance of a writer with his fair share of enemies. Could it be a publicity stunt, an affair or something more sinister?Troubled cop   check. Strange, gimmicky chronology   check. Rainy Britain   check. This new crime drama doesn t break the mould, but it s a compelling effort, headed up by Richard Dormer (Game of Thrones) and Jodi Balfour. draw to a close this week, with Sakari Oramo leading the BBC SO for the final concert. Among the highlights is a tribute to composer John Adams, featuring the London premiere of Lola Montez Does the Spider Dance, from his upcoming opera Girls of the Golden West.This new two-parter follows a group of travellers embarking on a once in a lifetime adventure. What makes it even more remarkable is that each has a disability, meaning there are challenges both mental and physical to overcome. As inspiring as it is entertaining.Dance on air: Strictly s back, with contestants including singer Alexandra Burke and Paralympian .Expect tear-tinged laughs as Tig Notaro s sadcom gets a second run. The political and cultural climate of Trump-era US seeps its way further into the plot, as racism, sexism and religion come to the fore. There are also some new faces in the cast too: among them, Broadway actor Sheryl Lee Ralph gets a recurring role as Felicia.Engineering expert Danielle George and former student of Stephen Hawking, Christophe Galfard, join forces with perhaps the world s most famous living scientist for this new two-part series, examining whether it might be possible for humans to inhabit a new planet within the next century.More heavyweight true-crime from Netflix, with . The man in question is the brother of the film s director, Yance Ford, affording the project a rare sense of intimacy.The hit cartoon about a depressed former sitcom star returns this week for a fourth series, mixing ludicrous laughs with emotion.If they can t take the heat, it s definitely time for those celebs to get out of Gregg and John s kitchen, as we reach the first semi-final of this year s competition. There are dishes with chicken, pork and haddock to prepare for RNLI staff and volunteers, before an Invention Test that sees the Rev  pull out all the stops and Lesley Garrett cut it fine.																																											