For Hollywood, summer has been a disaster movie. US ticket sales are the lowest in decades, the landscape is strewn with fatigued franchises and , and most studios don t have two blockbusters to rub together. Which is unfortunate because blockbusters are now the only game in town. Studios have steadily been painting themselves into a corner by releasing fewer, more expensive movies at the expense of mid-range drama, which has pretty much defected to television.Concurrent with this trend has been . Effects movies demand state-of-the-art projection and sound, 3D, , , all of which come at a premium. A night at the cinema is now a big investment, especially in the UK, which has some of the highest prices in the world. (The UK average in 2016 was ?7.41, but in a decent London cinema you re looking at over ?20). One problem is that the ticket price is the same whatever the movie. Punters want to get their money s worth, so you can hardly blame them for choosing the big-budget popcorn splurge on Screen 1 over the thoughtful indie on Screen 12. It s not a level playing field; more like a Premier League football team competing against the local minnows.So here s a suggestion: a two-tier cinema system. Your blockbusters in one league, and a separate circuit for lower-budget movies, with much cheaper tickets. For a long time, this was how movies operated. The term  now applies to anything vaguely low-budget and/or trashy, but from about the 1930s to the 1960s, B-movies  that second tier: cheaper, shorter films that often played before the  A  feature. A-movies were the prestige star vehicles; B-movies were often lowbrow, formulaic genre fare: horrors, sci-fi, action movies, often part of a series   in other words, the stuff of modern-day blockbusters.Now it s serious dramas that are the B-movies, pushed to the margins along with what we used to call  arthouse  movies: challenging, non-mainstream, maybe foreign movies. These are cinema s endangered species. So why not put them all in a separate type of cinema and charge half the price? It would be a cheaper night out for punters and a proving ground for new talent. Many directors and actors cut their teeth in B-movies, from John Wayne to Clint Eastwood, Val Lewton to , not forgetting , which pumped new blood into Hollywood the last time it needed a transfusion (Jack Nicholson, Coppola, Scorsese, , even James Cameron). It could do it again.																																											