Forty years after his death, this profile of the T Rex star is narrated using his own words. It traces his north London origins, early Dylan preoccupation and his romantic, narcissistic conviction that he was a?star, vindicated when he helped initiate the glam era. He even prophesied, albeit jovially, his own demise to Simon Napier-Bell, who is among the contributors. Followed by Glam Rock at the BBC, which features Bolan, among others. If you re going to stand a?chance of outwitting the trickiest teasers of the titular maze, a?winning team should possess all the talents. Tonight s crystal-chasers include a?rabbit, a?dragon, a?fox and a?hamster?  albeit within a?group of cosplay convention-goers. More midlife-crisis drama from a?show that once felt like an event, but now bumbles along in inoffensive and unremarkable style. It still boasts a?cast of middlebrow troupers (including James Nesbitt, Hermione Norris and Fay Ripley) with decent chemistry, but feels oddly flat. The emotional heart of this new run looks to be Adam and Tina s agonising over starting a?family; whether that will be enough to sustain viewer engagement remains to be seen. Jimmy Carr hosts the mashup show that you can bet has had telly execs wondering what else they can weld together. Pointless v Question Time? Tonight, cap n Jon Richardson is joined by Sara Pascoe, battling Sean Lock and henchman Vic Reeves. Starring and co-written by 8 Out of 10 Cats  Rob Beckett, this pilot finds Beckett s hapless thirtysomething Rob jobless and returning home to live with Mum and Dad (Alison Steadman and Phil Davis). Except they have moved to a?caravan park in Margate without telling him. It s going for  heartwarming family sitcom , but the result is powerfully unfunny. Matt Stone and Trey Parker have admitted that last year s 20th run of their crude cartoon got bogged down in its season-long story arc, which was too concerned with reacting to political developments, and the assumption that Trump wouldn t be elected. As they return, they say they want to get back to the basics of  kids being kids  and doing whatever occurs to them in the week before each episode airs. Ryan Murphy s baiting of clown-haters continues with its freaky journey into the darker recesses of the mind. As per, the exact details of this season s twists remain a?secret from viewers, but after last week s presidential election episode, here comes the fallout. With the cult s leaders now buoyed by Donald Trump s victory, things begin to fall apart. Hide behind the cushion: things are about to get even more twisted.  (Clint Eastwood, 2016) 1.10pm, 8pm, Sky Cinema PremiereTom Hanks is Captain Chesley  Sully  Sullenberger, the pilot who, incredibly, landed a?passenger plane with failing engines on the Hudson river in 2009, saving the lives of all 155 people on board. The feat is filmed with hair-raising authenticity, but Eastwood s solid drama is as much concerned with the subsequent investigation, in which it is suggested Sully be blamed for not following correct procedure. It s here that the dignified Hanks persona exerts steady?control. 1pm, Sky Sports Golf Coverage of the second day at the Dutch in Spijk, Netherlands. 1.30pm, ITV4 Coverage of four races from day two of the St Leger?meeting. 7pm, Sky Sports Main Event Action from the top-flight encounter at the Vitality?Stadium.																																											