Four band members. Four categories. But, alas, there can be only one winner here. Three, two, one, GO!Prodigious, especially given he has also found time to date . One solo album, an album with his band Discovery plus his neverending songwriting outreach work within the pop and rap communities. The weakest solo work rate of all the people called Chris in , Tomson has written only one solo album so far, under his Dams Of The West moniker, 2016 s Youngish Americans. Two solo albums, in 2015 and 2017. A fourth  album is due next year, working title: Mitsubishi Machiato. His hipster Anime TV show, Neo Yokio, is on Netflix soon. Thatch Snow? Probably a good thing he left tbh. That d be: The Inerrancy Of You And Me   a reference to the theological concept of biblical infallibility. The title of his first solo album, The Names, was taken wholesale from a Don DeLillo novel. Had a writing credit on  for Hold Up, because of a tweet he wrote, which referenced a Yeah Yeah Yeah s lyric. He workshopped the tweet out with Diplo, who then sold the concept on to Beyonce. Turned up with a co-writing credit and played guitar on stand-out Ivy for Frank Ocean s album. He also had a hand in Kanye West s Friends. And some Carly Rae Jepsen. Plus a spot of obligatory Solange work - the horny-handed toil of every indie band guy who ever thought TLC were pretty sweet. Wrote a solo album under his Dams Of The West moniker about the anomie of settling down and getting a mortgage. Wears a white tux in his solo music videos, in which he uses cheap bluescreen to teleport himself to glam locales, like a self-aware Pitbull. Cookery is probably a bit too rooted, but any polymath is easily distracted. The odds of sacking off his band for a joint concept album with David Byrne about the sex life of George Washington Carver are pretty much nailed-on. Far too earnest to give up on the music, man:  I can t even begin to express the joy I get from writing songs  i hold it sacred. There is so much amazing music  etc. High. The whole thing feels like one of those viral confessional pieces in which a millennial complains about  never feeling truly adult . The lore of the latter-day authenticity-seeker is that he has to return to crafting at some point, and cookery is second only to chair-making on that spiritual plane. If he shuffles off into anything it s most likely to be his already-maturing sideline as a techno DJ. He d probably mutter something about art  not being a competition, it simply is , earning him a further bonus point, so: BIG WINNER!																																											