From  versus  to  v  the BBC and ITV have a long history of  against each other. that rivalry will resume as?the BBC s bleak detective series  faces off against a psychological thriller, .This time, however, there is a twist: both shows are written by Harry and Jack Williams, the team behind the critically acclaimed    and they are as surprised as anyone to find that their main competition is themselves. It is very weird for us,  says Jack.  We didn t know how we felt about it at first because you re competing against yourself. I got a bit worried about it but then Harry said to me,  You do know that people can just watch both at different times these days? The sons of the novelist and screenwriter, Nigel Williams, Jack and Harry have become big names in television. Their intense and complex , which followed French detective Julien Baptiste over two series and two different missing child cases, has been joined by their increasingly successful production company , which made the hit comedy , in addition to and . I think the main thing [about  and ] is that they re very different shows so I m mainly just curious to see how each one goes down,  says Harry.  The next morning will be very interesting, to say the least. It s certainly true that the shows are worlds apart in tone and structure. The gripping  (the title is killer backwards) begins at the end of its story with the capture of a serial killer before unspooling to uncover why the crimes occurred and how everyone came to this place. It s bleak, dark and very tricky unravelling not only the main storyline backwards but also all the individual relationships the characters have with each other.By contrast, is a tense, topical tale of possible date rape, starring Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd, in which both leads  accounts appear plausible and viewers are left unsure exactly who to believe. In some ways  is the one that s most different from the things we ve written before,  says Harry.  We d written  for two seasons and then  and so we d done a lot of dramas with complicated structures and shifting timelines and wanted to try something that was a bit simpler and a bit more character-focused in some ways.   was  so complicated and intense and so hard to crack in terms of how you tell that story , says Jack.  Just before we went in to pitch it I said to Harry,  We can t tell this story because it has no consequences   don t pitch it . We went in and pitched four ideas which were all pretty bad and then Harry pitched  and they said,  Let s do that one . Two days into the writing he turned to me and said,  There s no consequences, it can t be done.  I just said,  I fucking know   that s what I told you. The brothers are adamant, however, that viewers of  will not be left too confused.  We re acutely aware how complicated it is so there are little bits in each episode to lighten that,  says Harry.  It shouldn t feel like homework. It should be entertaining. And for all Rellik s unusual structure and dark subject matter  may yet be the show that causes more controversy. Did they worry about centring their story on an alleged rape? We spoke to a rape counsellor while writing it to make sure that it felt authentic and truthful,  says Jack.  It s a psychological thriller and not an issue-led show but we were very aware that it was a sensitive subject and needed to be tackled carefully. They chose sexual assault as a subject because  there seemed to be so many of these cases where it came down to what each person said and what became interesting was the idea of what does the person themselves believe happened and how two people can view an event in very different ways .That said, while there might be twists and turns through the series there is only one liar.  We did definitely know which of them is lying and we knew what the ending would be,  says Harry.Which of the two shows do they prefer?  It would be dangerous to take sides,  says Harry.  They re so different that I do think if you watched them both you wouldn t have any idea that we d written both of them. They re both us trying something new. 																																											