Frustrated by what she sees as a lack of police progress, teacher Laura (Joanne Froggatt) makes a social media attack against the man she has accused of rape, surgeon Andrew (Ioan Gruffudd). But far from empowering Laura as she hopes, this only causes her life to spin further out of control, to the extent the cops think she is becoming her  own worst enemy . Meanwhile, stressed Andrew makes an error at work. A?taut, cleverly constructed drama. Second episode of the reverse-chronology crime drama, and given renegade DCI Gabriel s memento of the investigation, it is little surprise that he is too busy stomping on the rule book to go by it. The investigation now hinges on Isaac s stolen laptop, the content therein and uncovering why it means so much to the enigmatic Christine. That backwards narrative still feels tacked on, suggesting little faith in a storyline perfectly capable of retaining our attention. It took seven years for Cassini to travel to Saturn and, over the past 13 years, the spacecraft has been beaming back information to Earth. While there s plenty of science to get excited about in this doc, which marks the dramatic ending of Cassini s mission, what s really special are the extraordinary, poetic photographs taken from the probe. In one shot taken from beneath Saturn s rings, you can see a tiny twinkling planet in the distance: Earth. Gertrude Bell, born 1868, was a writer, adventurer and archeologist who followed her fascinating passions around the Middle East. As this BBC dramatisation makes clear, her life and legacy would have been remarkable for any woman or man, in the 19th century or the 21st. Archive footage is brought to life by actors playing the personalities of the time, speaking words from their private diaries and letters, with Tilda Swinton ideal as Bell. Brilliant. Exactly. The merciless spoof of the Beeb by the Beeb is back for a new series. It s the year of Charter renewal and the perfect excuse for a round of meetings in which the art of saying nothing at length is spun out with semantic ingenuity by the scriptwriters. Meanwhile, Siobhan s Perfect Curve group has been bought out by Dutch group Fun Media. Not entirely sure about the sub-plot about a footballing cross-dresser, however. A thinly veiled excuse to show buff comedian Joel Dommett with his top off, this new series finds him travelling the globe to pit himself against some of the most rugged folk there are. His friend Nish Kumar goes along, too, just to watch and quip. This week, they head to Mongolia where Dommett tries the archery, horsemanship and wrestling central to its nomadic population. He makes a royal tool of himself attempting the latter. This documentary recounts the investigation into the 2012 rape and murder of Jill Meagher in Australia. CCTV and the testimony of police officers is disturbing and compelling, but there is another side to this story. This was a high-profile case, mobilising the community on social media, and has had legal consequences around information-sharing and parole reform. Disturbingly, at the time of the offence, Meagher s killer was out on parole for previous sexual assaults. (Peter Farrelly, Bobby Farrelly, 1998) 9pm, 5StarGeeky Ben Stiller is going to the prom with the girl of his dreams (Cameron Diaz) until a bloody accident with his zipper ends the romance before it starts. Years later, he employs Matt Dillon s sleazy detective to track her down. With the shocking-the-dog-back-to-life sketch and the spermy-hair-gel scene, it s not exactly sophisticated, but oddly touching, and Farrelly-funny.  12.30pm, Eurosport 1. The opening day, featuring matches at the Yushan Number One Middle School in China.12.30pm, Eurosport 2. The men s under-23 individual time-trial from Bergen, Norway. 8pm, Sky Sports Main Event. Spanish top-flight match at the RCDE Stadium.																																											