hat a Monday evening for Jack and Harry Williams, the creators of  and at least the second best Williams siblings in the world, who have two new primetime thrillers competing against each other on BBC1 and ITV, airing in the exact same slot. Perhaps it s just a big stunt to promote catch-up services, or even ITV+1, as surely the audience will be one and the same.From the title alone, (BBC1) sounds like the kind of Scandi noir crime drama that launches a thousand patterned jumpers. It s the meatier of the two, in many ways; it s gothic, it s gruesome, and it s all wrapped up in a reverse-time package (Rellik = Killer), that means we get to see what happened next, before we get to see what happened. Richard Dormer is grizzly DCI Gabriel Markham, who is supposed to be celebrating the capture of a serial killer attacking his victims with acid. You will note that Gabriel has also been scarred by the killer   so why is he drinking in his car, alone, dejected by his attacker s death, rather than jubilant that he has finally been stopped? Something, or perhaps everything, does not add up.The show lurches back in time a few hours, to the moment the suspect is shot, and this rewinding happens again and again over the course of the hour. It s an excuse for some nicely arty shots of time going the wrong way, but it s also an effective device used with some originality, and the way in which it reveals details about the protagonists  lives is neat. Gabriel is having an affair with his colleague Elaine Shepard (Jodi Balfour), but we don t know that he is married until the end of the episode. When he hands Elaine a key, it looks as if he is urging their relationship on; later   or, technically, earlier   we are shown him telling her he will give her the key back, to call time on what they are doing. Giving the audience these little morsels of intrigue is smart and flattering. We are trying to move forwards by watching Gabriel go backwards.As with The Missing, this is plotted so tightly that there is little room to breathe, and it hints at bigger conspiracies. There is a mysterious psychiatrist with OCD, a victim of a different acid attack who is suspected of involvement in the serial killer s spree, and a wealthy man with the kind of milk-bottle glasses that signal someone up to no good. Initially, I found the story a little cold, a little too clinical, a little pleased with its own cleverness, but by the end of the episode, I had been reeled in completely, and inevitably I am now desperate to know how it all fits together.(ITV) is less Luther-ish, and more similar to the final series of Broadchurch, in both its setting and its subject matter. Teacher Laura (Joanne Froggatt, always so good at portraying suffering) goes on a date with heart surgeon Andrew (Ioan Gruffudd); it goes well, and they end up outside her place, deciding what to do next. But when Laura wakes up the next day, she is horrified, distraught, and says Andrew raped her. Meanwhile, he has sent a text thanking her for the great night, and when the police arrest him on suspicion of sexual assault, he claims the entire evening went very differently, at least from his perspective.  We re just seeing this completely differently, that s all,  he tells her as she recoils from him, terrified.This is the nub of the drama: everyone has their own view of what happened. Laura says she told him no; Andrew says he even stopped and went to the bathroom to get a condom, and she didn t get up, or run away from him. But there are gaps in each person s story. Laura s memory is hazy. Andrew s account to the police, about asking to charge his phone after he had called a taxi, for example, does not tally with what we have been shown. The discrepancies may be small, but it is already starting to look as if he has something to hide. He is not the only one. This is a small town, and, as in Broadchurch, everyone s secrets are about to come to the surface.In its final few minutes, Liar swerved from the procedural path it seemed to be on and again proved that the Williams brothers are experts in intrigue. Frustrated by a growing sense of futility at the investigative process   the show is very good at showing just how much would be counted against Laura in a court case   and certain that it would come down to her word against his, she takes matters into her own hands and posts an accusatory message on Andrew s public profile. It takes a bleakly familiar story into unfamiliar territory, and though it is less showy than Rellik, it s just as gripping. I look forward to the next five weeks of getting wrongfooted by this elegant brain-teasing double bill.																																											