hat happens when the world moves on and leaves you behind? It s the key question behind , the first release from the endearingly earnest folk collaboration Gavin Osborn & the Comment Section. It s a record about being frustrated, angry, bewildered and aware of the utter ridiculousness of a world that has moved past your point of understanding.Singer-songwriter Osborn, 40, has seen the soft-corporate power of chain-stores swamp the West Country town of Keynsham where he lives; he s tried to make it in the bohemian paradise he imagined in the big city, and abandoned it as too cynical and expensive; he s tried to hang on to his values: left-leaning, pro-immigration, pro-arts, and seen the world rush forward and leave them behind. And he really doesn t know what to do next. It makes  one of 2017 s most relatable releases.Up to this point Osborn s career hasn t exactly been marked by seriousness. In 2004 he was struggling on the London open-mic folk circuit when his old school friend, the comedian John Oliver (now a hugely successful talkshow host on America s HBO) invited him to a regular Tuesday afternoon football match with a group of friends, mostly comedians, now almost all famous.Among them was the fanatically worshipped cult comic Daniel Kitson, who was impressed by Osborn s warm storytelling and enlisted him as tour support. Kitson s devoted fanbase took to Osborn straight away and he became a sort of accidental comic, appearing at comedy clubs and festivals, working with Robin Ince and Alun Cochrane and writing a series of acclaimed storytelling collaborations with Kitson, which the pair toured as support for Belle & Sebastian. e is the first time the jokes have taken a backseat to the music and the message. Even when it s funny, I don t think I could do many of these songs at a comedy club,  Osborn explains.  There s funny bits   I can t help putting witticism in   but I don t think it s laugh-out-loud. If it s funny, it s wry. It was time to be more earnest. The album was sparked by a conversation with friend and collaborator John Hare (the  Comment Section ).  John s a music teacher and told me about a class at his school that got an Ofsted inspection,  says Osborn.  The teacher was told there was too much music, that the kids were picking up instruments too much.  In his head, Osborn began to fast forward through the kids  and their teacher s lives: if you love poetry, art, music and you re told it s not important enough, what happens next? What kind of world are we building?Part of Osborn s appeal is the way he processes his anger into a kind of likably grumpy bewilderment and uses it to unite his audience. We may feel lost and alone in a cynical world that no longer fits our values, but we can be lost and alone together. Osborn wanted to create a comfort blanket for post-Brexit alienation.One of the album s key songs is Don t Know Enough About That, about the very 21st-century tendency to bluff your way through important conversations using information you ve gleaned from headlines. Osborn knows the damage this can do, but also knows it s something we re all guilty of.  That s true right down to David Davis trying to do the Brexit negotiations,  he says.  He s that guy, wandering into a room with people much cleverer than him and pretending he knows something. That s all of us. Osborn doesn t have the answers, but that s not really the point.  When Bob Dylan used to sing Don t Think Twice, It s All Right, people would ask him what it was about, and he d say it s just a song to make him feel better,  he explains.  That s how I feel about this record. It s a sense of catharsis for me and the audience. Even on the record I m telling myself that it ll all be all right. We need this, we need to know that other people are feeling it, even if it s more out of hope than expectation. 																																											