hat on earth brought on  s intense interest in the Queen s late sister, ? At the start of his naughty new book about her, he attributes it to Margaret s -style appearance   ubiquitous, if not exactly chameleon-like   in just about every other memoir, biography and diary written in the second half of the 20th century. It is, he writes, like playing Where s Wally? or a super snobby form of I-spy: everyone seems to have met this prickly and parenthetical figure at least once, from Kenneth Williams to Evelyn Waugh, Ken Tynan to Elizabeth Taylor   a fact all the weirder when you know that the same people were often frequently desperate to avoid her.But perhaps Brown s obsession has another, more   how to put this?   Freudian source. He dishes up a Margaret-related encounter of his own. At school, he tells us, he had a friend called Michael, the second son of a lord and a nice, diffident chap to whose family houses   among them a castle in Yorkshire and a stately home in Norfolk   he was often invited to stay. It was in the hallway of their grandest place that the incident occurred. Asked to sign the visitors  book, Brown leafed nosily through it, at which point he discovered a photograph of Margaret, posing in the same hallway in which he stood, resplendent in a blue frock and fixed smile. Beside her was Michael s older brother, William, looking unremarkable save for one thing. The  downward trajectory  of the fabric of his trousers was, his pal couldn t help but notice, being  sent askew by a bluff diagonal . It seemed that at the moment the camera s shutter clicked, poor William had been struggling to contain a teenage erection.When people write of how this or that book made them laugh out loud, I m suspicious; even in the presence of Pooter or  and his madrigals, my hoots tend to be inward. But as I read Brown s riff on the unfathomable appearance of this image in a toff family s social record    did she [William s mother] notice that something was awry, but decide to go ahead and paste the whole photograph in regardless   lock, stock and, as it were, barrel?    I honked so loudly the man sitting next to me on the train dropped his sandwich.Partly, this was simply because it was funny: never before has a bulge in a pair of chinos been on the receiving end of so searching an analysis. (Brown s disquisition ranges from the natural reticence of the English upper classes to their stubborn pragmatism in the matter of wasting precious pages in visitors  books:  They had left a large space  for a photograph of William and , and they had no alternative detumescent photograph up their sleeves to put in its place. )But mostly it was because is fascinating. In its tiara-ed grip, I was unbound, released; total absorption left me as wanton and unselfconscious as Tony Armstrong-Jones   AKA , HRH s preening, spiteful husband   after too many martinis. Which was probably just as well, given my head was stuck, for all to see, inside an improbably huge book about Princess Margaret.Brown has done something amazing with : in my wilder moments, I wonder if he hasn t reinvented the biographical form. Subtitled , it is described by his publisher (which, infuriatingly, hasn t given him an index) as  kaleidoscopic . But this doesn t do it justice. It is a cubist book, a collection of acute angles through which you see its subject and her world (and, to an extent, our world) anew.As Brown notes, Margaret wore her rudeness as Tommy Cooper did his fez: it was her trademark   the bitchier of her showbusiness friends actively longed for her to parade it at their parties so that they could roll their eyes afterwards. ( I hear you ve completely ruined my mother s old home,  she once said to an architect who d been working on Glamis Castle. Of the same man, disabled since childhood, she also asked:  Have you ever looked at yourself in the mirror and seen the way you walk? ) But if she is ghastly, her court is worse. The groupies, the servants, the lovers. What a bunch of creeps.Brown s 99 glimpses comprise essays, lists, catalogues, diaries, palace announcements, newspaper cuttings and interviews, as well as parodies (one is a pastiche of ; another echoes ; yet another, in which Brown imagines how things might have gone had Margaret married her admirer Picasso, is written in the style of the artist s biographer, ).His reading has been prodigious: not only the diaries of everyone from to , but dozens of gruesome royal biographies and memoirs, up to and including  by her former footman, the slithering David John Payne. Oh, how the sinister Payne loathes the arrival in Ma am s life of the slugabed snapper Armstrong-Jones   a character whom Brown introduces, incidentally, with a list of the contents of his Rotherhithe bachelor pad (golden cage containing three lovebirds; miniature brass catafalque; stand in the shape of a Nubian boy).Together, these things conjure Margaret in all her dubious glory.  likened her to a  hedgehog covered in primroses , but the reader will come to feel this is unfair to hedgehogs. The relationship with Group Captain Townsend is deliciously done: Brown doesn t buy the schmaltz, lining himself up instead with Prince Philip, who said sarcastically, when the Queen Mother worried about where a future Mrs Townsend might live, that it was  still possible, even nowadays, to buy a house .So, too, is the peculiar union with Roddy Llewellyn    [like] the put upon hero of a picaresque novel , he writes, Margaret s hapless young lover having, in quick succession, joined a commune, recorded an album and pranged his Ford Transit. But best of all is his portrait of Snowdon, hair and all, whose baiting of Margaret comes close to gaslighting at times.What a cast this book has. I cannot say whether I was more fascinated by Jeremy Thorpe s conviction that he would marry Margaret, or the notion that, in the Mustique years, she frolicked with a criminal, , who was said to have been able to either   take your pick   balance a small sherry schooner on or dangle five half-pint glasses off his erect penis.However peculiar, though, none of these things comes close to the eerie penumbra cast by Margaret herself. How to explain the utter rottenness of her character? In the end, one feels it must go back to her , the stench of which brings to mind scent left too long in the bottle. As Hugo Vickers, that most smoothly diligent of royal biographers, noted, the Queen Mother s  demonic  appearance at Margaret s funeral in 2002 suggested a just hint of triumphalism. Even after she d decided to cling to her royal privilege, her daughter always had more in common with the Duke of Windsor than ever she realised. by Craig Brown is published by Fourth Estate (?16.99. To order a copy for ?14,44 go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99																																											