Having channelled the Weeknd on Pillowtalk,  on his debut album and Drake on this year s non-hit Still Got Time, Zayn s now set his doe-eyes on Sia s gusty-pop crown. In fact, the billowing Dusk Till Dawn features Sia herself on backing vocals, the pair s high-wire emoting catapulting the now-this-is-how-you-do-a-pop-chorus chorus skywards, leaving the rest of the song essentially cowering under the sheer weight of it all.Altogether now:  I m fully charged, nipples are hard, ready to go.  So runs the chorus to  s Disco Tits, a subtlety-free sex jamboree that could never hope to live up to its title but has a pretty good go anyway. Over supple beats Lo updates us on her current excitement levels ( I m wet through all my clothes ) before unleashing perhaps this year s biggest understatement:  I know how to dial it back, not this time. The last time we heard from U2 they d taken the unprecedented decision , a PR disaster of such magnitude that even Bono seemed humbled. After three years of wound-licking they re back with a song featuring all the things you expect from U2: a chiming guitar figure Coldplay have probably already ripped off, a stadium-ready breakdown and clunky lyrics about children being the real teachers.Pop is so confusing. One minute it s all  love me harder    then, according to Clarkson, it s best to be soft, which if we re being crude seems to go against basic biology. Sadly, Love So Soft is a stinker; Clarkson s undeniable voice   which blows up a mansion in the video   struggling to mask the whiff of Meghan Trainor clinging to each plastic-sounding retro-fied horn blast.The cover art for Sam Smith s new single features a massive bunch of decaying flowers drooping on an artfully frayed tablecloth. The picture is in black and white to connote expensive, stage-managed sadness, which is basically what Too Good at Goodbyes is. The choir is lush, the production from former Mis-Teeq collaborators Stargate is slick, the voice quivers when it s supposed to, and yet the result is about as emotionally intoxicating as Jacob Rees-Mogg.																																											