he  is the last of the visiting orchestras to appear at this year s , and for the first of their two concerts, they gave us Mahler s , conducted by  and performed, somewhat unusually, with no companion piece. The symphony is one of the great tragic statements in music, though to some extent an air of mystery still clings to it. It is widely regarded as premonitory, both of the private tragedies   the death of his daughter; a diagnosis of a potentially fatal heart condition   that overtook Mahler shortly after its completion, and of the political and military catastrophes of the mid-20th century. Then there is the question, never fully resolved, of the running order of the inner movements: the andante and scherzo both reflect back on the conflicts of the first movement, though Mahler changed his mind several time as to which should be played first. Conductors are consequently faced with a choice as to how to proceed that inevitably affects the work s emotional trajectory. Harding placed the andante before the scherzo in an interpretation rooted in jolts and swerves between violence, lyricism and restraint. The opening march set the parameters with the initial lurch into brutality offset by some exquisite woodwind textures and a surge of intensity in the strings. The brass were over-prominent at the start, and the balance took a while to settle, but the development was relentless in its force until we reached the extraordinary moment of stillness and reflection at its centre. The andante had an uneasy beauty that darkened ominously as it went, while the scherzo, pitiless in its mockery of both the first movement s aggression and the tropes of early classicism, was bitter in its wit. The finale, however, which gathers the work s threads together in a narrative of assertion and defeat, was done with striking restraint, avoiding the overt ferocity that some interpreters bring to the work at this point. This was not so much a cry of desperation as a measured progression towards inevitable catastrophe, with nuances of colour and emotion carefully probed and the movement s structural logic laid bare. Gains in clarity sometimes came at the price of a lack of cumulative tension, but the final plunge into despair was disquieting in the extreme.																																											