he arts world is facing a Hamlet availability crisis. It is of course utterly impossible to get tickets for the reportedly superb  of the play, running in a tiny London theatre for three weeks to raise money for the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (Rada). It was also fiendishly difficult to get tickets for the recent critically adored Hamlet, starring of Sherlock fame.To compound the nightmare, there?happens also to be a new production of Hamlet starring , and it is very, very possible?to get tickets for that.News of utterly sold-out theatre shows has in the past brought out the? in me: say what you will about Hollywood films,?they are non-elitist   you can pretty much always get tickets. But I am also a convert to livestreaming theatre into cinema. So won t Kenneth?Branagh   director of the Hiddleston Hamlet   relent, and allow his production to be beamed into Britain s movie theatres? A portion of the ticket price could go to Rada! It?would raise money for Rada! Why are we all pining hopelessly for this show when the solution is obvious?Of course it might be that Sir Kenneth has cunningly contrived his Hamlet-famine for precisely this outcome. Never mind. Let s see Tom Hiddleston s Hamlet in cinemas. I just think somehow we re bringing up a generation of rude people,  said Salman Rushdie, explaining his . But there s something else: a new generation of braggers, humble and otherwise.We re all at it. Showing people your?holiday snaps used to be a byword for dullness. Now we re incessantly sharing them live on Instagram. And every summer people?are positively screaming online?about their children s great exam results under the guise of saying? well done  to them.I have (boastfully) proposed the term  to describe the habit of those, especially journalists,?who effusively thank everyone for congratulating them on this brilliant thing that they have just written. But perhaps the most extraordinary indication of show-off Britain is the phenomenon of schools who hang bizarrely huge banners outside their gates, boasting about their Ofsted reports, like placards in revolutionary Russia.  It s official!  yelled one I saw last weekend.  Ofsted?says we re GOOD. Do they think prospective parents?make decisions based on these school banners? Nope. It s just?the new compulsion to self-advertise. I d prefer a tiny thoughtful sign outside school gates, saying:  Could do better. People nervous of driverless cars are sometimes dismissed as luddite wusses afraid of the future, like timid Edwardians who wouldn t dream of using a lift unless there was a bellhop in it to press the buttons.But I m uneasy about these  in which only the front one has a driver and those behind are controlled  by wifi  (Username: Notcrash. Password: Quitesafe). Oh great. I hope the wifi is better than the one in my house, or?in the back of any cab I ve ever been?in that boasts its  free wifi . Or on any train I ve ever been on. Or indeed my mobile phone. Let s trust that, on the first day, the humanoid driver doesn t check his wing mirror and suddenly see those driverless followers veering all over the road   then check the settings on his dashboard and realise the sickening truth:  Oh no! It s gone to?BT Openzone!  Peter Bradshaw is the Guardian s film critic																																											