he constricting cloak of time has hung heavy upon our shoulders these last few weeks.  for repairs, bringing a bemused gathering of mourners to Parliament Square to capture its last chime on their phones. The  reminded us of a broader timescale, and how we once used to set our daily clocks before Big Ben, and before the factory and the train. And then there were the usual shenanigans from the travel and sporting desks: a four-hour delay on the M6; Shahid Afridi hitting the year s  for Hampshire; Manchester City snatching victory over Bournemouth seven minutes into injury time.I thought about temporal things as I took the four-and-a-half-hour train to the Edinburgh international book festival. One of the things I considered was: am I wasting my time attending it? I could have been watching the multiple time-slips of  at the cinema again; I could have been reading in the garden; I could have tidied the shed (obviously I was never really going to tidy the shed). But there I was, telling time stories against the clock. I read a passage from my book, : We crave punctuality but we loathe deadlines. We count down precisely on New Year s Eve so we may obliterate the hours that follow. We pay for Speedy Boarding so that we may sit on a plane and wait for everyone else to board, and then when we land we pay to get fast-tracked. We used to have time to think, but now instant communication barely gives us time to react. Paradise is a beach and the eternal waves and a good book, but then there s email. Why not save time with Apple Pay? Why not experience ultrafast speed up to 200Mbps with Vivid 200 fibre broadband? An online search for  time management  produces  about  59,000,000 results in 0.48 seconds. As I spoke in the tent I wondered whether we have already come too far to reform the way we think about time. Can we possibly convince ourselves, Aesop-like, that faster isn t always better or more productive? Are we somehow single-minded enough to believe that the new broadband offer won t tempt us with faster download speeds? Can we resist the new phone app that promises to  shave  minutes, perhaps hours, off our workloads? How do we comfort ourselves with the fact that we live in a perpetually dissatisfying twilight world where we know that, because things will always get faster and faster, nothing can possibly be fast enough now? Scarily enough, when I first tried that Google search for? time management  two years ago, I only got about 38 million results compared with about 59 million today: either the search engine has become more efficient or our obsession has become more extreme.Of course I knew why I was speaking in Edinburgh: sounds corny, but one goes for the audience. They came loaded with the sort of questions we should all be asking, the questions for the reformation. There was a shared feeling that we needed to reset our clocks in some way, back from a widening abyss. Someone asked, with noble optimism, whether we couldn t just go back to living by the rising and setting of the sun. Another was a geologist, an occupation that tries hard not to snigger at our modern speeding manias.One person asked whether we wouldn t do well to measure and judge passing time by dynasties, Chinese style, not by the atomic signals we glance at every few moments on our phones (but of course industrial China is now leading our charge towards the abyss, and not just because much of the iPhone is sourced and assembled there). I was asked about the Clock of the Long Now, that estimable/bonkers project planned for a mountain in western Texas (it will tick once a year, and chime once a century). Its inventor  hopes it may aid our  thinking past the mental barrier of an ever-shortening future. . The clock is part-funded by Amazon s , a cute touch from the man whose company may soon deliver all our commonplace needs within the hour.At the end I was asked whether I d been able to recalibrate my own life to?a slower pace since I d first begun writing about acceleration. I admitted defeat, but I welcomed old-time progress (or regression) wherever it presented itself. I note that there will be another total solar eclipse (over Argentina and Chile) in less than two years. I was pleased to learn that Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan have just named their new baby August, a nice lazy month; could have been Terabit, could have been Zeptosecond. is published by Canongate.																																											