he day begins with the alarm at 8.30 and then commences the great struggle: wake up or go back to sleep. I am by nature a nocturnal person; the hours between midnight and 3am are when the world feels almost enchanted in its stillness, and writing comes most easily. Through my 20s, I wrote at night   10pm to 4am. If I were a different kind of person, one who could shut out both the world and myself, in order to work I would still be writing during those hours. But my life requires both solitude and sociability, and in the interest of the latter I have to reshape the ways in which I interact with the former. So, no more writing into the early hours of the morning. The alarm rings; I struggle with myself; I get out of bed. (How long this process takes is entirely dependent on how keen or not I am to get to my writing desk).Into the kitchen for a cup of coffee, and stop along the way to pick the Guardian off the doormat. Drink coffee; read paper. (How long this process takes is entirely dependent on how keen or not I am to get to my writing desk). Then?I change into something comfortable verging on unviewable by the outside world. I read what I ve written the day before, read it out loud to see if?the ear might pick up flaws and failures that the eye can t see. This is necessary, but that doesn t mean it isn t a form of procrastination.Then I write. But of course there's a significant omission in here: I haven t mentioned the internet and writers telling anyone about their writing day have to account for their relationship with the online world. So yes, at some point before I settle down to work I?look at email and Twitter and WhatsApp. (How long this process takes etc.) Some days I am driven to put my phone in another room and switch off the wifi on my laptop; on other days, once I ve started writing the emails ping in and I barely notice them. Whatever the circumstances, I m never so foolish as to have Twitter notifications switched on.And then I write. Or some days, I don t, because all this has taken me up to lunch and now I have to find or prepare something to eat (HLTPT etc). And after I ve eaten I m sleepy, so nothing s going to happen and perhaps I should just go for a walk. While I walk, I think about the novel. Sentences and scenes write themselves so much more easily when you aren t actually writing them. They aren t always the sentences and scenes that I m working on that day   sometimes it s scenes of what s yet to?come, which I hold at bay (I write chronologically, always). Other times I realise there s something missing earlier in the narrative that I need to put in.I return to my desk. I write. Some days it s like wading in treacle while being allergic to treacle. Other days, I m?in my element, and more deeply at home in myself than I can ever otherwise be. Yet other days, I m just one of the millions of people who are sitting at a desk, getting the day s work done.I don t have a set time for stopping, but one of the pleasures of not being a nocturnal writer any more is in knowing that there is a certain moment in the day when I can push my chair back from the desk and say, I m done until tomorrow. Some times, late in a novel, when everything has acquired an almost unbearable momentum and I need to write what happens next in order to know what happens next, I might return to those old ways and sit down for a writing session that continues until 2 or 3 or 4am   but those days are rare.Mostly, evenings are times to read and to see friends. I know I ve reached a certain point in a novel when my social world contracts and I only want to see the closest friends in whose company it s possible to emit a very low thrum of energy without feeling the need to give any more. Eventually, home again, and an episode of some TV show. And then commences the great struggle: go to sleep early enough to be well rested when the alarm rings, or stay awake enjoying the post-midnight stillness of the world.  is published by Bloomsbury. To order a copy for ?12.74 (RRP ?16.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											