 voice. “Are you on the street?” Reverberating footfall in the underpass. And an urgent call demanding acknowledgement. He hustled after me, swearing, smacking a fist into his open palm. We moved, pursuer and pursued, in steady bank holiday drizzle, down a slippery, stone-flagged ramp towards the laby-rinth of borough engineer ’s reinforced concrete subterranea: a buried swimming pool, a vault to take cars away from the promenade, a marine walkway pressed against a wall of broken bottles. Like a reliquary for beachside drinking schools, the thirsty ones at the end of the land.Panoramic sea windows, lacking glass, are set in expectation of invasions still to come. (Between 1940 and 1944, Little had a sideline, working with the Admiralty on the construction of a concrete .) Hastings in the 1930s, in the borough engineer’s pomp, was a punt at the better way: sanctioned leisure time for all, seasonal tourism as a benefit. And smooth rail connections to the capital, the Smoke. Open roads, carving through the humped folds of the chalk downs, beneath the outlines of mythical giants, were celebrated in collectable posters by the finest artists and designers. Cars were not yet weapons of choice, primed for mindless assault on the crowd, those who are privileged to walk freely in the city.Where did it all go wrong? When was the vision that sanctioned the spectacular amphitheatre of the West St Leonard’s lido and the magnificent folly of the tallest block of residential flats in England, built to look like a beached cruise liner, like the newly launched Queen Mary of the Cunard White Star Line, downgraded to nostalgic flickers on a monitor screen in the little visited town museum?“Are you on the street?” Ever since I told myself that I had done with the compulsion to write about , I felt that I had lost my centre of gravity. As if the familiar markers I ambled past every day no longer recognised me or had any use for a sleepwalker in the muzzle of elective silence. There was no longer an obligation to carry a notebook or a camera. Or to endure the madness of being overwhelmed by random voices, mendacious signage, tags and scribbles, snippets of intrusive mobile-phone babble: along with the moral imperative of shaping white noise into a coherent narrative. The rough sleepers, ranters on buses, spice zombies, station beggars I sourced as potential characters were taking their revenge by welcoming me into their survivalist sodality. Did I look like one of them now? Did my skewed, eyes-down trudge transmit a different code, a new set of pheromones?The Hastings man in the tunnel was enraged: most pressingly with uniformed enforcers who were tidying up the mid-town shopping centre, prodding him from his habitual ledge in the shadow of Lloyds Bank, away from the shelter of the padlocked public toilets now under offer as “commercial property”. He had nowhere to go. His tormentors were tight-lipped and implacable. And, beyond these irritations, it was the world at large. Those spiteful iniquities: the way that politicians and post offices and wives and publicans singled him out as a person worthy of torment. Gulls screamed in derision. Electrified invalid carriages piloted by Hell’s Angels grannies with a sense of fierce entitlement used him for target practice. But I was sympathetic. Or so he imagined. A fellow traveller in distress. I was on the street. Was it the clothes, the tilt in my walk? Another grizzled prospector for small brown coins gummed to tarmac. Did he sense that I had lost my project? That I was rambling without purpose, burdened with too many convenience-store bags?I underlined a quote from the paperback I was reading; a gift from a New Yorker commissioned to make films for the Discovery Channel, in which he shadowed particular writers through their special cities. The sprawl of Mexico City was entrusted to . The book, featuring a broken detective dragged back from the grave, was . “Now more than ever he had the absurd ability to feel out of place everywhere.”Taibo’s one-eyed, cola-swilling investigator, in his John Ford eye patch, knows that “you can’t return to what doesn’t exist, but you can long for what you had.” And that was pretty much my take on London. From the moment, cutting the grass around a Hawksmoor church in Limehouse, when I assembled an overcooked stew of poetry-reportage, work diary and speculative essay in 1974, to polemics against Olympicopolis and the imposition of CGI unreality on the corporate theme park of the , I believed that the job involved channelling aspects of the past, scratching at resistant memory traces. I’ve never moved far from the WB Yeats quote that started it all: “The living can assist the imagination of the dead.”I was like one of the dead myself. The invisibles of the city, the troubled ones who are not part of the general contract, began to see me as something other than a predator with a ballpoint pen or a petty-cash patron. I thought of what happened to the real writers when the crunch came. It never did for JG Ballard: notice of premature mortality was an equation to be solved with an immaculately constructed final memoir, . The earlier fictions were refined and revised into benevolent myths, all dues paid, carrying the story towards its necessary conclusion at the hands of a “strong-minded, wise and kindly physician”. , creator of more demented surgeons, slid across his last border into a far west of dreams. After his malignant succubus – the will to write – was exorcised in a Native American sweat lodge ceremony, he was freed from the karma of composition, the penance imposed for the shooting of his wife, Joan Vollmer, in Mexico City. In Kansas exile, Burroughs humoured his superior cats and kept meticulous dream journals. The characters and sets were still in place, but now they composed their own stories. “A long time ago,” Burroughs wrote in one of his final entries, “but not too far to walk.”Walking, always the favoured iteration of the dream of the city, has become, hour-by-hour, a more conflicted activity. The peripatetic vagrants, the ones who yelled at me across the blur of morning cyclists, demanding a response, were balanced by the sitters, the vegetative slab-squatters and pavement warmers who had found their place. With no intention of giving it up. Metropolitan hustlers, the monad of scurrying, dawn athletes coming out of their pristine, new-build, railside apartments, hitting the street like a treadmill, do not see the benched Buddhas. They are inoculated against empathy. Outpourings of public emotion are reserved for horrible media catastrophes: outrages on London bridges, underfunded and irresponsibly provided tower blocks that become crematorium chimneys, stealing the lives of the unregistered who live alongside stuccoed ghost terraces occupied by rumours of remote speculators.Ill prepared for many aspects of a city polarised by satellite developments, east and west, around the two Westfield retail colonies (street food from every nation), I was open to any invitation to take to the road. There would be a tent show in Brighton, at the fringe festival, inspired by . I was asked to contribute. And, being literal minded, I left London for Dover, to make my own pilgrimage, by way of Canterbury, Faversham, Sittingbourne, Rochester and Shooter’s Hill, to the Old Kent Road and Westminster. I was getting away from London’s karma by marching, in a fugue of absence, right into the worst of it.?I carried with me the imprint of fire and water: repeat excursions over the same ground. Fractal patterns of pondweed on which new coots have to learn to walk rather than paddle. Viridian swirls of instant derangement from tattered nitrous oxide balloons on London Fields are earthed by the heat from old bricks in the wall of the Beehive Foundry. Physical work is still going on. All the dramas of our lost London are enacted within a few yards of the railway bridge crossing the Regent’s Canal at Mare Street, Hackney.A speculative development under one arch arranges its imported plants and cafetieres in denial of the surrounding scene. Polish builders in smart trainers and Gap T-shirts decant from Addison Lee taxis. A filthy, rat-disputed shelf under the bridge was previously occupied by a rough sleeper in a sack like a body bag. Until he was joined by others in an all too visible camp, their shelters scavenged from driftwood. These unfortunates were prodded awake and swept away by the black vans of  (sanctioned to do just the opposite). The raiders come early and defer, in whispered conversations, to a higher authority. Television crews, professional entropy tourists, revise the graffiti on the gothic ruin beside Empress Coaches for the latest episode of London noir. The narrowboat with the pirate flag is boarded and captured. The container stack, looking like a  apocalypse dumped beside the smouldering landfill dunes on Rainham Marshes, is a shared-desk hipster hive for internet startups and craft beer websites.The narrow towpath, where several cyclists came to grief as they bombed out from under the bridge and into the water, was occupied by what looked like a pile of discarded, post-disaster charity clothing. It turned out to be a young Asian man who greeted me with a friendly salute. He still hoped to find better accommodation “over there”. He waved in the general direction of Victoria Park, before warming his back on the heated bricks of the foundry. We exchanged a few words every morning. But only after we had established terms did he indicate that he might be prepared to accept a coin or two. On days when he was still asleep, burrowed into his layers, other benefactors left fruit on his pillow. One morning I noticed a pair of fresh bananas.The wall-hugging perversity of walking beside water is a habit I am reluctant to break. Breathing space on towpaths, pavements and crossing points between highway upgrades is critical. And bridges: think of the by a jogger setting a PB in his fantasy Olympics. There are hierarchies of entitlement: the Lycra peloton fretting for respect or the headphone joggers in outfits boasting of the conspicuous charity of bankers. Pedestrians are at the bottom of the food chain, cushioned in self-righteous indignation and fondly imagining ourselves to be revenants from an earlier, better time. One evening a young man rapped imperiously on my door. He had been commissioned by the council to carry out a survey on how many steps we old folk managed in a day. Tapping white teeth with a black Biro, he suggested a properly supervised class in how to make a circuit of London Fields.I was attracted by the ever-open doors of J Hoyle & Son. And the name of that canalside building: Beehive Foundry. An intensely local spill of heat. The sanded floor of a dark cave. A lung-scouring inhalation leaving needles in the nose. Formaldehyde is used to set moulds for the casting of iron stair rods. This family business, one of many such Hackney operations, threatened or vanished, was started eight years before the Jack the Ripper murders. The Blakean furnace roars with no reference to the status struggles, nudges and shunts of the morning towpath. The Gentle Author from Spitalfields, who dropped in on the foundry one afternoon, informed us that “no piece of railing or fence need ever be irreparable”. James Hoyle & Son cast the decorative ironwork for the Bank of England, the British Museum and 10 Downing Street.I replayed these Hackney vectors – fire cave, bundle of occupied rags huddled against the wall, swish of the peloton – when I left town for Dover. I had no good reason to return, beyond the dream of a terrace house, endured and enjoyed for almost 50 years: the nest, the base, the fixed point from which all journeys begin.Watling Street was a 14th-century branding exercise, after the Roman imperium, giving status to a series of ancient trackways, and upgrading W?celinga Street, a title derived from tribal territory around St Albans, into a premature autobahn, a contraband highway waiting impatiently for the invention of the internal combustion engine. I packed a proof copy of the lively and engaging book by John Higgs, but I realised very quickly that there was something amiss: Higgs was in a car, diverting wherever the fancy led him, making it his business to string together a yatter of counter-culturalists and embedded subversives. In form, blended the amiable eccentricities of John Aubrey’s  with the polemic thrust of William Cobbett’s . Higgs took his children along, the outings were informative and fun. They lent themselves very well to “outcomes”: tent shows, blogs, itinerant performances. They travelled from now to now.The oldest trackways made the shape of a carrion crow’s footprints in mud, starting in three landing places at once: Rutupiae (Richborough), Portus Lemanis (Lympne) and Portus Dubris (Dover). Choosing Dover and stepping out on a Sunday night was a confirmation that it was closed to hospitality and barely tolerant of passerines – and only if they are prepared to visit the defensive block of the castle, the Roman ruins. Professional drinkers nesting for the night around the pale glow of a cash machine are infected by a universal malaise, impotence simmering with resentment. I remembered the man I’d heard that morning, ranting as he power jogged beside the canal. “I bought 2,000 bottles of poppers, thinking the price would be incredible when they were made illegal. I speculated. Post-Brexit I am always angry.”We are all angry, leavers and remainers, but where to place the blame? On the peeling seawall, under the curtain of the chalk cliff on which they recently projected a monumental image of Vera Lynn, a slogan has been painted: “NO PASARAN!” The Spanish republican boast from the siege of Madrid. The chant of those who resisted the Mosleyite march through the East End in the Battle of Cable Street in October 1936. Heroic defiance erects a hard Brexit barrier against the procession of Channel ferries. On the promenade, buffeted by the downdraft from a caravan of sealed lorries escaping the port, I was stopped by a black tablet, lettered in gold like a freshly restored gravestone, and set “In memory of 58 young people from China who died near here on 18th June 2000. All human life is precious”. Choked of breath as an illegitimate cargo.The only refuge, tucked hard against the cliff, is the Last Pub in the Civilised World. And so it feels. The German behind the bar, like the purser on a doomed freighter, has many sausage-based dishes on his card, but only pizza available at this time. He doesn’t know the difference between cider and lager, but he charges a sturdy hiking couple, Indian women in shorts, just ?1 for the pot of tea they have nursed all afternoon. I know that the American in the corner, in his , is going to tell me at any moment that he is a poet who can extemporise for “40 minutes straight” on the Beats. He is chilling out between gigs in Chatham and Margate. He has an internet presence. He asks how long I have been on the street. A tuneful dirge in the background references “Bridge Over Troubled Water”. “Simon and Garfunkel,” my new street friend says. “Those guys are why I became a poet.” And why I need to get back out into the weather.Next morning I meet the film-maker  at Dover Priory station. Andrew finds a pair of white flints that he twists in wire and presses against his eyes like blind spectacles. The better to see with his feet, he says. To counter dull aches with the acute pain of blood dripping from the flaps of torn ears. We reach Canterbury in good heart and dine that night at Byron on one of their riskier specials, the fat-cheeked Kimcheese burger with Korean BBQ glaze, Freddar cheese, kimchi cucumbers, “under a dollop of gochuchang sauce and spicy ssamjang mayo”. With an optional bucket of fries. A suicide feast appropriate to these darkening days. Threat and counter-threat on screens in restaurants and Premier Inn lobbies.After enduring the dead miles of the A2 between Canterbury and Sittingbourne, we are heading home to a city that is no longer there. Andrew left Deptford years ago, at the time of Thatcher’s “right to buy”, but nostalgia for riverside stinks puts a bounce in his stride. Reconnecting with the putative Roman road, we find nirvana: an enterprise punting disability vehicles alongside what looks like superior road kill. Deep-frozen Euro-imported exotics are very popular, apparently, at Kentish weddings, functions and festivals. The strength of London’s centripetal power is not felt until we reach Shooter’s Hill and the stutter and surge of Old Kent Road.On Westminster Bridge, close to the original ford, we are processed into another reality. We are reminded, by floral tributes, shedding sunflowers and unopened yellow tulip heads, of the mindless slaughter  who came, in pain and rage, from the coast to the capital. He stayed at Preston Park Hotel on London Road in Brighton, making a final meal of takeaway kebab, before steering his Hyundai hire car into innocent walkers on the bridge. He crumpled his piloted projectile against the low wall, the decorative ironwork barrier, with its roses and spikes, outside the Houses of Parliament. This was the fence cast by the  in Andrews Road, Hackney.We parted beyond St Paul’s, after stepping around the queue of Chinese bridal couples waiting to pose, in costume, inside a red telephone box. Andrew drifted across London Bridge, the site of the next attack, while I meandered, through reflex City passages loud with early evening drinkers, to Shoreditch and home. Iain Sinclair’s  is published by Oneworld. To order a copy for ?13.99 (RRP ?18.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.