He is one of Britain s biggest actors, a Hollywood A-lister known for his performances in The Talented Mr Ripley, Sherlock Holmes and The Young Pope. Yet  managed to cause a security scare at a cinema in Bath last week after staff failed to recognise him.Bath Odeon employees were told to monitor a hooded man who was  acting suspiciously  by loitering in the foyer of the cinema last Wednesday. The cinema s manager had failed to spot that the man was Law, who was trying to keep a low profile while attending a screening of historical drama Detroit. Eventually cinema attendant Connor Walter recognised Law and asked for a picture with him, as well as giving the actor a hand-written message. Law later sent Walter an email thanking him for his  kind note . I was working as the ticket tearer stood at the bottom of the stairs, and my manager told me to keep an eye on a man acting suspiciously with his hood up in the main foyer,  .  The man spent a good 10 minutes just standing around on the phone, then he came and bought a ticket from one of my colleagues and my colleague who served him the ticket did not recognise him. He came to the bottom of the stairs and I tore his ticket, I looked at his eyes and recognised him, then he said  thanks  and I just knew it was him within an instant.  If I had not been working that night, nobody else would have recognised him as he was very unrecognisable with his black hoodie and beard,  he said.After the screening Walter approached Law and asked for a photo with the actor, before slipping a note  praising him for his work over the years  into his back pocket. Walter later received an email from Law thanking him, and apologising for his swift departure. From one movie madman to another... thanks for your kind note,  Law wrote.  Sorry I ran off. I am always aware of making a scene in public. Hence the hood! I m a huge film obsessive too. I love them. Nice to hear someone else does .Law is currently filming the sequel to JK Rowling s Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them in the nearby village of Lacock, Wiltshire. The actor will , the latest in a series of prequels to the author s Harry Potter books.																																											