He is so ineffectual. Everyone was worried about the crazy things he d do, but there s nothing that he s done that can t be changed in another administration, like the Paris agreement. There s no need to panic. Too many   I don t want to say liberal lambasts   are hitting the panic button too quickly, instead of bringing up issues and talking about them. For me it s really a case of: what s going on with the senators, what s going on on a local level? Sure, Trump is the firebrand, and everyone wants to talk about the return of Nuremburg after that Boy Scout rally, but whatever. People forget: he hasn t done shit. He really hasn t. Even with his party in control of both houses, nothing has happened. He hasn t fulfilled one promise. So what am I scared of? I think people need to calm down, and keep fighting the illogical with logic. He won by the smallest of margins. And honestly, he only got in on a technicality. It s shit like that you have to keep reminding yourself of, because they will try and paint a completely different picture. Rhetoric is swirling around. If only there was an interconnected device to look back in time to see what the truth and the reality was! I say that with all the sarcasm in the world.It s only because of this presidency that we are getting a really good taste of it. In a misogynistic culture, there s this misconception that doing good things for people, and trying to take care of them, is a  pussy move . The result is a bunch of people pumping their chests up, and talking shit on women, talking shit on gay people, talking shit about everyone. They feel threatened; their way of life feels threatened.A lot of it has to do with the fact that the liberal and LGBT community is coming at them fast and loose with concepts they are not used to; they re not part of their culture, and yet they are being forced to accept them. There s liberal fascism in response to the conservative fascism, and it s keeping good people in the middle scratching their heads and thinking: I don t know what to believe. And part of that reaction is this pumped-up masculine middle finger going:  You don t tell me how to live my life.  It s their mind balking at the fact that they may have to accept something when they haven t had the chance to understand what it is.For so many years they have been in control of what is culturally accepted, and the whole LGBT community is trying to override that, because they re tired of being marginalised, they re tired of being treated like a perversion. It s very much a war. I lived through the Reagan years and I grew up during the gas shortage, I grew up seeing some serious shit go down. But I don t think the country has been this divided since the 1960s., and I m about as qualified as he is, ie not at all. It s the same as the Rock   I love the idea of him saying  but they re just another pair of voices saying that they can  get it done , and look where that s got us. There are still so many cabinet positions that have not been filled in this administration, because Trump is completely overwhelmed. And that s a guy who reportedly knows how to run a business. So what the hell is Kid Rock going to do? It s the biggest form of ego I have ever heard in my life. Please go ahead. Drive a car with a blindfold on and see how far it gets you.It brings out this crazy psychosis in all of us. At least on a blind date you have to kind of be yourself   they re going to see the sweat, and see you re struggling. But dating sites and apps put you at ease, and so all the little gnarly quirks and perversions come out. Hey, if it brings freaks together, who am I to judge? I think everyone has someone out there, and I would like to see people get together. But are you really trying to meet the love of your life on Grindr?Romance isn t dead, though. As long as there are hopeless romantics like myself, I don t think it will die. We will just see an evolution of what romance means. There are still people who love selfless acts. And if it s something as weird as a very heartfelt post on Twitter, to some people that s huge. To some people that s the ultimate act of romance.I m the worst hypocrite because I bitch about it, but I m just as bad as everyone else. I wander around with this tiny little tablet in my hand, and I look up and see that someone has asked me a question. It s so embarrassing. These devices are bringing out all the dopamine that I had wasted for years on smoking and drinking and drugs, and I m waiting for what the hangover is going to feel like. I don t know what the repercussions are going to be, but maybe we re starting to see the end of face-to-face relationships, and more and more people being comfortable with long distance relationships. Why do I need to touch anyone? All I need is my phone and this contact and that s all I need.My contribution to being eco-friendly is quitting smoking. I recycle. I do this and that. But all you can really worry about is your own side of things. If you start to think about it on a huge scale then you get overwhelmed. At the same time, I d like to think we re trying to do the right thing and we are trying to get this planet on the right track; not because of the planet, but because of us. George Carlin nailed this 25 years ago. He said: the planet is fine, the people are fucked! The planet is going to be here long after we are gone. Don t try and bullshit me that we are saving the planet   we are saving ourselves. We put so much emphasis on the planet and not on the people, because we feel it s more selfless, but if people were more honest maybe we would get more done with climate change. I m not trying to save shit. I don t give a fuck about the planet   I just want to keep my kids alive.The industry is trying to make peace with streaming, they re finding out how to monetise it, but they re still screwing over the artists. It s sad because I m seeing a lot of bands get out because they can t make a living. How are you supposed to make a living when it s completely taken out of your hands? I m in a unique situation because I m in the old system, but I m actually able to make a pretty decent living with the new system. I find it hard to bite the hand that feeds me. But at the same time I see all these other bands who can t get a break. I don t know what the answer is to be honest. I m stoked for people like Ed Sheeran   that kid worked his ass off, so why shouldn t he get the recognition? But at the same time when his songs dominated [the charts] because of streaming, where is the fairness? What about the other artists who worked their asses off, but maybe didn t have a million streams?I could have told you this 20 years ago. The thing that bothers me is that people differentiate pop and hip-hop but they re the same thing. I hate most new hip-hop. It s all the same mush-mouthed bullshit, and it doesn t say anything except  I want to get fucked and drink champagne . It s pathetic. The hip-hop I grew up with had a message. There s a reason  is my hero, let me put it that way.A lot of people are upset because too many manufacturing jobs are gone, but there are so many companies coming up that need a workforce. There s a reason the market is doing well in America even though the presidency is shit, because the prior presidency actually left behind a healthy infrastructure with growth happening. Trump s going to try and take credit for that, but there s always a two or four year hangover. The problem comes when you start to see deregulation happening on a federal level when it comes to big business   that s when the machines come in, that s when the outsourcing comes in.But all of these insurance companies are hiring, all of these tech companies are hiring. People look at those industries and go: I m not intelligent or pretentious enough. But if you want to feed your family, then a job is a job. Sometimes you have to bite the bullet and go with what you have to do. Follow where the work is. If industries want to keep outsourcing and replacing people with programs, then stop buying those products. Hit them where it hurts. That s what it comes down to. You re seeing grandmas in Slipknot shirts. It s really weird. It makes it easier for me to blend in, which I am completely happy to do; you get tired of the stares after a while. But punk and metallers take  fascist  imagery like shaved heads and black clothing and divorce it from racism and nationalism, to make a statement about disaffection; you re now seeing people like  who are not only appropriating the imagery of nationalism, but also the rhetoric. The anger, the racism of it. It worries me. Oh, but ? He can kiss my ass.																																											