he latest portrayal of London as a Victorian city, , adapted from Peter Ackroyd s novel and starring Bill Nighy, is in a grand tradition that shows no sign of going out of fashion any time soon. There may, from time to time, be an example   such as    in which the whole point is for the drama  to be set in Victorian London; but even then, the weight of the capital s history is ever-present, the self-consciousness of the translation from 19th to 21st century evident in every second of screen time. There may be modern buildings in shot, but for all practical purposes, it s set in a Victorian city.That s because London is, itself, a Victorian city. To adapt a line from the great Hungarian novelist Ant l Szerb, it isn t so much a city as a state of mind. Just as Venice is about its canals, and Paris its Haussmann boulevards, so London will always be the boiling city of smoke-blackened brick, the city summoned up in the opening paragraph of :It doesn t matter that the smoke and the soot and the fog have gone: this is the idealised iteration of the city, and to this day there are tourists who are bemused to find that there aren t any , or that the policemen don t wear capes, there are no hansom cabs, and that Sherlock Holmes is not in residence, consulting at 221B.It s also largely down to . He and Dickens, between them, carved up the city and made it theirs. The long duration of the Victorian era didn t hurt, either. It accounts for almost a century of an imagined city   strictly from 1837 to 1901, but the boundaries bleed out at either end.The question is: why this era, above all others? Samuel Johnson, a century earlier, has a good claim on the city; so does . That gives us one clue: the city, in effect, does not date from before 1666. That gives it a little under two centuries to find its feet. Enough time to construct an identity. I would actually say that the city really gets going in about 1850. That was when the farmland of Marylebone was finally built on, replaced with the traditional stucco terrace houses. With their tall windows on the first floor, more modest ones on the second and tiny ones on the third, the house shows Victorian class structure in its design. And this was London s modernity: the jostling together of rich and poor, sometimes not just in adjacent streets, but in adjacent buildings. It was this that made Marx and Engels look at the capital and decide that if the revolution was going to happen anywhere, it was going to happen here first (or Manchester. There is a good case for saying that Manchester is an even more Victorian city than London).Victorian London on screen looks great, with its mists and drizzles and gouts of black smoke (and sounds great, too: nothing like a horse-drawn carriage wheel rolling over the cobblestones). But the city also has an uneasy relationship with itself. Here, the wealthy may have their vast privileges but they will still be at risk from a homicidal maniac like Jack the Ripper. The city resembles a body, too. In Victorian times it inhaled foreign bodies, literal foreign bodies. They would end up in Limehouse, for example: bacilli that could be benign but, for the purposes of entertainment, were not.But this isn t what clinches the era s extremely persistent appeal. I think it s to do with the construction of the sewers.  Dogs, undistinguishable in mire. Horses, scarcely better; splashed to their very blinkers,  runs another part of the opening of , and  mire  is a euphemism. London stank of shit until Joseph Bazalgette built the sewer system that still, amazingly, continues to stop the city from collapsing under a tide of ordure. That project started after the Great Stink of 1858, and the memory of it didn t go away for a long time. And I would like to think it still haunts the place, and is summoned every time we hear a Victorian peeler s whistle.																																											