he Lifetime movie is the hallmark of a celebrity life lived to the full. These made-for-TV classics are packed with unusual casting, smirk-inducing one-liners and a good dose of high camp. And wigs. Always wigs. While some stray into hate-watch territory, others are surprisingly addictive. The acting doesn t need to be good as long as there s some moment of recognition, and bigger is better when it comes to dialogue. So let s rate some of the, ahem, greats.Casting  in anything is genius. It s a comedy, right? No? Er, OK. Because LiLo is more like Liz McDonald than Liz Taylor.It is the film that launched a thousand very niche drinking games. But for a tale that s packed with drama, affairs, marriage, divorce, fights and an overdose, Liz & Dick doesn t half drag. The action is undeniably sexy at times, but ultimately laughable. When Lohan s gravelly voice and perfectly applied eyeliner are the two most interesting things about a film, you know you re in trouble for the next hour and a half.Liz:  I need a ring. A big ring. A pair of low-slung trousers does not an  make: Alexandra Shipp brought nothing of  Baby Girl  to the role. The casting was bad across the board: as for Chattrisse Dolabaille s Missy Elliott, it s as if they plonked a baseball cap on a passing stranger.Nope. It s far too slow-moving, with Shipp pumping out most un-Aaliyah-like cover versions, due to the glaring lack of music rights. How can you have a proper Aaliyah movie without Try Again? Songs aside, let s not forget that R Kelly married Aaliyah when she was 15. It s an impossible task for a made-for-TV movie to make their relationship seem anything less than wrong, no matter how many  toot tooooots  or  beep beeps  R gave the world to make up for it.Aaliyah:  Eighteen feels like an eternity from now,  she tells  in a dubious attempt to romance him. At 15. Eurgh.Lex Scott Davis makes a lovable ingenue and her eyeroll at the suggestion of recording plodding megaballad Unbreak My Heart is on point.How could a film about Braxton binning off her sisters for a record contract, getting a massive bouquet from , having her card declined and being diagnosed with lupus fail to bring the soapy feels? She felt the guilt, she felt the bankruptcy, she felt it all, but Braxton comes across as a true survivor.Fake LA Reid:  I m sure  felt bad when he left the Jackson Five. It s like being in the 90s, Screech s hair and all.Extra points go to a Lifetime Movie soundtracked by Bell Biv DeVoe s Poison. There were groupies, there were drugs, but   more shockingly   the cast signed actual belly buttons. If you don t want to even think about Screech getting stoned then look away now, because the whole thing is based on Dustin  Screech  Diamond s tell-all memoir Behind the Bell. So it s only right that he got his first kiss with Tori Spelling   and all the glory.Fake TV exec:  The network didn t kill us, but the hormones might. Wobbling blond bombshell Agnes Bruckner does her best as    if indeed her best is to be loaded up with prosthetics and teetering around pneumatically. Cleavage like hers is made, not born.It takes a bold woman to practise her pole-dancing moves in a children s playground, but that s what took lil  Vickie Lynn from zero to, er, expert writher in a cowboy hat. Then she wooed octogenarian J Howard Marshall with the words:  Where are you goin , handsome?  She, er, made him feel like he was 75 again. Although her story is portrayed as beyond sleazy, she certainly got an angelic send-off.Anna Nicole:  I ll be buried as celebrity and international balls-to-the-wall party girl Anna Nicole Smith, but I was born Vickie Lynn Hogan. Crazy-shirted MJ impersonator Navi received mixed reviews for his shamones,  he-heees  and oddly British accent. who loves Bobby Brown, fried chicken and privacy.Jacko s bodyguard:  He doesn t want to be the King of Pop. He just wants to be Mike, a normal American dad. Fake Brittany Amanda Fuller morphs from a collagen-heavy Annie to Bridget Jones, looking nothing like the troubled Hollywood star. Pity poor Sherilyn Fenn, who has to play her mum. Whoever was casting this movie made one trip to Bad Blonde Wigs R Us too many, and crowned  with the very worst. and it shows. Surely there should be a prize for anyone who can understand anything Brittany says once she starts crying. And she has a lot to cry about: being hounded by paparazzi; falling out with her childhood friends when she discovered kale; and romancing Ashton Kutcher s terrible haircut. Her death scene is tastelessly done, with Brittany unconvincingly coughing her way through an overdose when her actual cause of death was pneumonia.Brittany:  They re finally seeing me for my inner blonde. Not exactly. Natasha Bassett s Louisiana accent is as slippery as Britney s I m A Slave 4 U snake., as she goes from not-that-innocent teen to fully fledged pop star with a sex tape. There are, of course, unsavoury moments, from  Pinky s  shedding of her highly publicised virginity to  Stinky  (that s Justin Timberlake for the uninitiated) to her Vegas wedding to Kevin  Meat Pole  Federline. But what really resonates in Britters  story is the real sadness when she struggles as a mother in the constant spotlight.Britney:  I have, like, zero boobies. Total. , all smize and scrunch-dried hairdo, while Mark Rolston makes music executive Clive Davis his own.  Stay away from yellow,  he warns Whit.  It makes you look like a canary.  Whitney wisecracks her way though the movie, bringing warmth and sass.Director Angela Bassett turned in the most watchable Lifetime Movie ever. Whitney s a wisecracking minx who leads a thrusting Bobby Brown from beer to drugs, ticklefights him in a limo and provides him with shedloads of hot lovin . They go shopping on Rodeo Drive, they bond over a video of Irene Cara in Sparkle and at one point he declares:  They just don t know how to handle you. Not like Bobby Brown would.  If that isn t a beautiful love story, what is? Like The Bodyguard, the action ends at I Will Always Love You.Bobby Brown:  Here you go, baby. I make lurve and make eggs. 																																											