he new Birmingham Conservatoire is in many ways a reminder of the Brummie resurgence. England s second city centre was not long ago    a tiny commercial core cut off from its natural space by ring roads and a belt of derelict Victorian properties. However, in recent years it has been revitalised with a futuristic train station, swanky new library and an impressive new civic centre, called, in a statement of intent, Paradise. So sure of its reclaimed place as the heart of the nation, that . Such a stage will be welcomed by Birmingham s orchestra, one of the best in Europe. The worry is not about the future of the city, which bursts with elan, but where future musicians will come from.Opening the conservatoire, its principal, Julian Lloyd Webber, , and he hoped to use the new college  to ensure that the future arts industry is not dominated by the wealthy elite . He will have to try hard. Those studying music at university are vastly more likely to hail from private schools, or from abroad. In 2016 the Royal Academy of Music, which produced Annie Lennox and Sir?Simon Rattle, took in the . The Royal College of Music took in the sixth-lowest. Almost a quarter of the rest of their students come from abroad: both institutions are  with the highest proportion of international students.Worryingly, music education in the UK seems in decline. This is partly down to the English baccalaureate, introduced in 2010 to boost the number of students studying science and languages. With the focus on purer academic subjects, . Now , up from 22% five years ago. Researchers warn that music in secondary schools . There is a fundamental question about how music   pop, jazz or classical   enriches people s lives. Medical science can make us live to 90. If?you don t have music to enjoy, one may ask?what s the point of living until 90?It s becoming a real question for the have-nots. Music is taught in the majority of schools around the country, but it is skewed towards the rich. Those wishing to study classical music, a grounding that can lead to rock and pop, must often pay for private tuition and own their own instrument, which cuts out those who cannot afford it. Despite?outreach efforts  are from private schools. In 2015 the music industry  to the country s economy, but the country has not returned the favour.There are hidden costs of a fading music education, too.  that music can help those with dyslexia, and reduce anxiety . It can also help children learn other subjects better. Music must not become the preserve of the privileged. Britain has a long history of training great musicians from poor backgrounds (the Italian composer Luciano Berio  was the way it nurtured young musicians). Exclude state school pupils, and future musicians will be drawn from the top. Britain would be poorer for it.																																											