he theme music from Lawrence of Arabia comes to a close and John Suchet tees up a movement from Henry Litolff s Concerto Symphonique No 4 with an anecdote about how a warrant was once issued for the composer s arrest. Over the rest of the final hour of his weekday flagship morning show on Classic FM, he fits in some William Boyce, the third movement of Beethoven s Pastoral Symphony and a Maori folk song.Suchet is warm, engaging and, above all, brief on air. After the composer and performers get the obligatory namecheck   he seldom bothers with details of what key a piece is written in   he moves quickly on to the next track; sometimes via the merest mention of something that has caught his attention in the news, sometimes via a fun piece of history relating to the music and sometimes via nothing at all. As the mood takes him. On Classic FM less is more when it comes to chat. While presenters on other radio stations frequently use their shows as echo chambers for their own egos, on Classic FM they are merely there to fill the gaps between the music. Much loved and highly valued link-up presenters, but link-up presenters nonetheless. In any hour it is rare for any presenter to speak for more than four minutes in total. This may come as a shock to some classical music purists who have always been a bit sniffy about Classic FM. They don t like the way the station seldom plays a work in full. They don t like the  don t frighten the horses  emphasis of its output. They don t like crossover artists such as  and . They don t like the way film and video game music is treated on a par with Mozart and Chopin. They don t like   well, pretty much everything really.None of which bothers Suchet.  We re not here to tell people how they are supposed to listen to classical music,  he points out.  Our remit is not to educate. If people want to go on a journey of discovery that s fine, but we re here to play them the music they want to listen to. We understand that people are often listening to the radio at the same time as they are doing something else. They are driving the kids to school, on their morning commute or have got the radio on in the background at work and don t necessarily want to be particularly challenged by what they are listening to. Our mantra is,  If you don t like what s playing right now then stay with us for a few minutes and we re sure you ll like the next piece. It s a formula that has proved remarkably successful. When presenter Nicky Bailey launched Classic FM with Zadok the Priest on 7 September 1992, few radio insiders gave the station more than a couple of months. The collective wisdom was that there was no market for a commercial station playing classical music and that anyone who was interested would already be tuned to  3. Fast forward 25 years and Classic FM is the biggest commercial radio station in the country, attracting more than 5.8m listeners per week, not to mention tens of thousands more online around the world.Classic FM s success has been built on a creative tension between innovation and an instinctive desire to play safe. Nowhere is this more evident than in its playlist. If you want to listen to opera, then tune in elsewhere. The most you are going to hear is the very occasional bit of Puccini or Mozart. Nor will there be much in the way of mainstream composers such as Mahler, Bruckner or Britten. And certainly nothing from the likes of Bart k and .Quite how something gets on to the Classic FM playlist is kept closely guarded. All managing editor Sam Jackson will say is that,  It s not death by focus group.  Though it certainly has that feel. Whether the station has a panel of experts who arbitrate on every piece of music or whether it has a select group of trusted listeners who act as guinea pigs, the result is much the same. If a piece of music gets the thumbs down then it s consigned to the bin, never to be heard on the station again.There is some leeway. Some new music will be given the odd trial play to give listeners a chance to make up their mind whether they like it or not. But in general the rules are clear. If you re out, you re out. Which goes a long way to explain why some record companies are going to such lengths to make sure their albums get the thumbs up.  More and more we are finding that labels are coming to us and asking what bits of the repertoire we would like them to record,  says Jackson. Having an album played on Classic FM is every label s dream. If the station hadn t made a point of playing and promoting film music there s no chance that  would have been the best-selling classical album of the past 25 years.The danger in all this is that the playlist becomes almost self-selecting. Every Easter weekend,  in which listeners are invited to vote for the year s top 300 most popular pieces of music. Jackson insists that everyone is free to vote for whatever they like, but people invariably vote for the pieces they ve heard and know, and each Hall of Fame tends to resemble the previous one. The odd new piece may make an appearance   it was Classic FM that pushed  into the regular orchestral repertoire   but the feel and the tone is much the same: brand Classic FM.Not that this is any concern to anyone at Classic FM. Suchet is sent the following day s running order the evening before and that s that. He can try to make one or two changes if there s something he particularly wants to play, but everything has to be signed off by his producer. If a piece of music isn t on the list or has been played too recently on another show then the answer is invariably no. Does it bother him?  Not at all,  says Suchet.  My producer knows what I like and tries to play to my strengths but it s not always possible. Of course I have favourites I d like to play   I d love the chance to play some , but that doesn t test well with audiences. Everything comes back to the audience. Even the stations  live shows. Back in 2001, Classic FM launched a partnership with the and in the early days made a point of trying to help promote the orchestra s less popular concerts. But the audiences weren t best pleased to be sent to hear music they didn t always much like, so now the station concentrates instead on helping the orchestra sell out its mainstream repertoire. It s a matter of trust.Yet to write Classic FM off as a lowest common denominator station for a conservative audience is to miss the point. Classic FM hasn t just sat back and let its audience come to it; it has gone out and shaped people s tastes. By tinkering at the edges, both by being less dogmatic about what is and isn t considered to be classical music, and by programming mood music shows      in much the same way as pop radio stations have chill-out hours, it has created a whole new market and audience.There s a popular idea that the typical Classic FM listener is someone in their 50s or older, sitting in an armchair wearing a cardy. And there are clearly still plenty of those types around, otherwise P&O have been wasting their money by advertising their cruises on the station. But that s only part of the story. These days, the station has 1.2m listeners under the age of 35, many of whom are students. There is a far bigger audience crossover between us and Radio 1 than there is between us and Radio 3,  says Jackson.  We also have a huge digital engagement. Last month our Facebook videos received more than 17m views and our daily Facebook reach is 2m. One week we got more hits than Buzzfeed. Young people don t have any preconceptions about how classical music is supposed to enjoyed; they are used to listening to individual tracks so they completely get our approach. If the future of the station lies in the under-35s, its present is still very much in the hands of the over-60s. Back in the studio,  is getting ready to take over the afternoon show. After a long career on the BBC Breakfast sofa, Turnbull is one of the newest additions to the roster of presenters. But he is an ideal match for the station. Unthreatening, unpatronising and uncomplicated, he doesn t pretend to know more than he does and is just happy to give the listeners the music they want to hear.The first two hours of the afternoon are taken up with listeners  requests. First the soundtrack from Lord of the Rings and then , for someone from Scotland who has a stressful car journey ahead. Ring in and request a Beethoven late string quartet and you ve made a wasted call. Like Suchet, Turnbull is knowledgeable, wry and   of course   brief. It s the music, stupid.  Classic FM s 25th Birthday Concert with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Michael Seal is .1. Vaughan Williams: The Lark Ascending 2. Rachmaninov: Piano Concerto No 2 in C 3. Vaughan Williams: Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis4. Elgar: Enigma Variations (includes Nimrod)5. Beethoven: Piano Concerto No 5 in E flat Major op 73 ( Emperor )6. Tchaikovsky: 1812 Overture op 497. Beethoven: Symphony No 6 in F major op 68 ( Pastoral )8. Beethoven: Symphony No 9 in D minor op 125 ( Choral )9. Allegri: Miserere10. Mozart: Clarinet Concerto in A major K 622 																																											