hen  finished his 1886 novella Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, he tied up the tale with apparent finality: the lawyer, Gabriel Utterson, has in his pocket letters explaining that the two title characters (century old plot-spoiler   they re the same person) are both dead, following the discovery of Hyde s corpse. Ingeniously though, the Australian-born, Edinburgh-based novelist Anthony O Neill has managed to fashion a sequel from this apparent dead end: . In O Neill s continuation, Utterson is startled, seven years after the events described by Stevenson, by the appearance of a mysterious gentleman claiming to be Dr Henry Jekyll   who, logically, can not exist. Although the premise is clever   a story about divided personality now becomes one of apparent identity theft   its negotiation of what seemed to be an insuperable obstacle to the story s furtherance suggests that the classic sequel has become an unstoppable force. Another Stevenson banker, Treasure Island, has at least 10 assorted prequels and sequels by other authors, including two follow-ups by the former poet laureate Andrew Motion:  and . The popularity of the form can mainly be blamed on Hollywood, where the quality of a script is increasingly judged on whether the title could reappear followed by a  two  and ideally a rising succession of digits. Taking their cue from movie studios, writers and publishers began to imagine a second go at stories that had seemed to be one-offs.  The modern market was started by , Alexandra Ripley s 1991 continuation of Margaret Mitchell s Gone With the Wind, authorised by Mitchell s estate. Then came  (1993), extending Daphne du Maurier s Rebecca, and  (2006), which expanded Louisa May Alcott s Little Women. But while Brooks won the Pulitzer prize for hers, other fictional supplements have been less warmly received. The heirs of Victor Hugo attempted to prevent Cosette, , while lawyers for JD Salinger gained restrictions against John David California s  (2009), which picked up from The Catcher in the Rye. Legal letters, though, are not necessary to keep some great books within their original covers. There are three main reasons for respecting the writer s final full stop: a feeling that the work is too revered or important to be extended by another hand; the sense that the narrative is fully completed; and an obstructive estate, foundation or appreciation society. F Scott Fitzgerald s The Great Gatsby meets all three criteria, although that did not stop  being publishing online in 2013. A disclaimer classifies the work as  fan fiction , a genre that means every classic novel will now probably have some kind of sequel somewhere. I had guessed that George Eliot s Middlemarch   which must have a case to be the most complete novel ever written   might have gone un-stretched, but research revealed The Ladislaw Case by the Swedish writer Imke Thorm?hlen.That book happened even though Eliot took the precaution of including her own epilogue, a kind of compressed sequel. So the best strategies for authors keen to avoid the possibility of their books carrying on without them is probably to write multiple sequels yourself   as  did, in his Barsetshire and Palliser sequences   or, even though Dr Jekyll and Mr Seek cleverly finds a way through the storytelling brick wall that Stevenson seems to have constructed at the end of the original, to concentrate on tragedies with a significant final body count.Thomas Hardy, for example, does not leave much of a cast list for anyone contemplating taking on Tess of the D Urbervilles or Jude the Obscure.  also made sure that no one could write The Decline of Miss Jean Brodie, with the retired spinster teacher looking back from old age. Even in stories where key characters remain alive, their creators can leave a firm sense that everything necessary has been said. It is easy enough to imagine Ralph and Jack, two of the feral schoolboys stranded on an island in Lord of Flies, as a banker and cabinet minister later in life, but it would also be pointless. William Golding s novel expects and encourages readers to speculate about the men the boys might become. A great novel will often contain such resonance that its sequel is implied   and should not be written by anyone else.																																											