hen the comedian  confessed on an American chatshow last week that he is neither  a people person  nor  an animal person  and insisted he is one of the rare 2% who fit neither category, it fell a bit short of a TV scoop.His admission will not surprise anyone who has watched a video clip from David s hugely influential, award-winning sitcom , let alone those aficionados who have devoured all eight seasons. But what his interview with host Jimmy Kimmel did do quite nicely was remind viewers of David s knack for skewering the absurdities of modern parlance. It is a knack fans of the show have sorely missed in the six years since a new episode aired.From the moment  first offered a parodic glimpse of the comedian s Los Angeles home life in October 1999, David has been lovingly curating a public persona that is so out of sorts with the world that even in promotional mode for his new series he remains determinedly grumpy. In fact, especially in promotional mode. Asked this summer why he is reviving the show after so long, David said it was purely because he couldn t face the repeated question  is the show coming back? .Regardless of David s curbed enthusiasm, the arrival of the ninth series on  will rank as one of the most hotly anticipated resurrections in TV history   and this in spite of both the online leaking of several hacked episodes, and the undeniable truth that David s dyspeptic sense of humour is not everyone s glass of Californian ros .By now an appreciation of the  canon is used as a common marker of insider tastes. The show s most famous admirers, such as Ricky Gervais, lapped up its haphazard expos  of the daily irritations of someone who really has little to complain about. And its many rank and file devotees can recite sequences of dialogue just like others do with Monty Python sketches, favourite episodes of or quirky scenes from .That David, who was 70 this summer, became a major player in American television is largely down to his key creative role on , the show that starred Jerry  as a charming but callow New Yorker in search of an easy way through life. This seminal sitcom, which also starring Julia Louis Dreyfus and Jason Alexander, remains a pillar of mainstream entertainment 19 years after its final episode. Yet David walked away from it after seven successful seasons, explaining he could not cope with the pressure to stay on form.  I didn t want it to fall off,  he said. Similar fears have no doubt dogged him in the long gap since season eight of .Luckily, during the interim, another member of the David family took up the baton. Cazzie David, the comedian s 23-year-old daughter, put together four episodes of a show called  on YouTube earlier this year and it bore all the carefully etched curmudgeonly, shallow hallmarks of her father s work. It s pretty amazing,  her father said.  I ve never been that happy for another person in my life. It s great. I m her biggest fan. So what does the new  promise? Among welcome familiar elements will be Leon, Larry s perpetual house guest, played by J B Smoove, Cheryl Hines as his exasperated ex-wife, and Jeff Garlin as his longtime agent. What will be different? According to David, Larry will be more self-assured this time.  Every day confirms, more and more, he s right! He s right about everything; he s rarely, rarely wrong. And when he is, he apologises.  Also new will be Bryan Cranston, of  fame, appearing as Larry s therapist. ( Unfortunately for him. )Those who find David s crotchety alter ego a depressing cultural icon for our times are already most of the way to the intended joke. Even David s drawled catchphrase  preeetty good  is deliberately lacklustre and bland. , its creator seems to imply, is no better than we all deserve. What s more, its improvisational style has inspired a general shake-up of on screen comedy, from Judd Apatow s cinematic hits, to popular British TV sitcoms such as  and .David grew up in a noisy family home in Brooklyn, the son of a garment industry worker. As a schoolboy he steered away from performance, although he enjoyed it, fearing he would seem effeminate. His move into stand-up comedy came after time spent as a student in Maryland, a place where he felt unable to fit in with the blooming hippie culture.  I had a very difficult time with the lingo,  he has explained.  I couldn t bring myself to use those words. Although David often denigrates his stint on the stand-up circuit, he swiftly gained the status of a comics  comic; a dangerous player, who would sometimes walk off stage mid-set.Once David had created , a sitcom  about nothing  which famously embraced a radical new mantra,  no hugging, no learning , he made a film, , and then planned a return to comedy clubs. But the television triumph of  intervened.According to Hines the essence of the show s appeal is David s desire to dwell on social discomfort.  If there s a moment that feels awkward, most people are happy to move past that moment and never think about it again. Whereas Larry sees it and feels it and realises how funny it is and then makes an entire episode of that moment. It s finding that place where most of us don t want to stay. And he cannot wait to set up camp,  she has said.David has described creating the show s plots as like  putting together a giant jigsaw puzzle . He writes a brief outline as the basis for the actors to improvise from, and reportedly then always loses his nerve temporarily. The end result is a show that approaches difficult subjects, both small and large, with a bold lack of cant.Not everyone is so beguiled, of course. The writer and critic Cosmo Landesman points out a lack of social context in the show   possibly more of a problem now in the era of Trump. Without the grumpy schtick I wonder if David has anything funny to say,  said Landesman.  He has to look at the little problems because the rest of it is so smooth. There is no conflict and the whole world is kissing his arse. Is it satire? Or is it self-satisfaction? Landesman also suspects  has had a bigger effect on the way people behave in real life than it has had on other comedians. And not in a good way. It has given people, he argues, an unhealthy licence to dwell on the minutiae of life. Certainly, the comics  trick of  bravely  drawing attention to their own failings is a standard way to establish social dominance. But David sees the TV version of himself as a projection of how liberated he would like to be. We all have good thoughts and bad thoughts, but nobody ever expresses the bad thoughts. We just think them and don t say them,  he once told Gervais.  But the bad thoughts are funny. I m such a liar in my life   keeping things to myself, not really telling my true feelings   that I feel like I want to go completely the other way when I have the opportunity. This summer, however, David suggested the relationship with his  incarnation is a little closer, and not just when it comes to a shared love of golf.  I don t know if you re aware of this or not,  he said to assembled media,  but TV Larry is just a quarter-of-an-inch away from real Larry. David s real ex-wife, Laurie David, is kinder.  The show-Larry is much more aggressive,  she has claimed.  The real Larry is very gentle and very sweet and doesn t like to offend people. But the last word should go to Smoove, who plays that houseguest Larry can t shake off.  They are one and the same,  he has judged.I had a wonderful childhood, which is tough because it s hard to adjust to a miserable adulthood.I don t like to be out of my comfort zone, which is about a half an inch wide.																																											