here are three reviews of  that need to be written.The first is Destiny 2: the campaign, the game that you can sit down and play through from start to finish. It s a genuinely good experience, with a plot that makes sense, characters who have actual personalities, and a narrative delivered through more than just text inserts and mission descriptions. Take the opening mission, Homecoming, which is already familiar to those who played the beta. It would be perfectly possible to write an entire review focusing on this 30-minute experience, a textbook in game design laid out perfectly for the player.You begin, unlike in the first game, with a fully powered-up guardian, dropped into the middle of an all-out attack on the Tower, last cradle of humanity in a far flung future. Over a snappy string of set-pieces, the game introduces new players to the core cast of Cayde-6, Zavala and Ikora Rey, teaches them the basics of combat and of their special abilities, and drops plenty of fan service in the background for returning players. Most impressively, the level silently communicates the importance of teamwork, matchmaking players into groups of three in the background before throwing them in a larger space where they get to see the effects of other classes  super abilities, and find out their own abilities get recharged when their allies succeed.A twist of the narrative later, and your guardian finds themselves wracked, depowered, and stumbling through the crumbling remnants of the Last City. The canny design doesn t end quite yet, with the game smoothly introducing a final few concepts (you try to jump over a ledge you can t quite clear, only to discover the game now offers  mantling , letting your character pull themselves up from near-missed jumps), and your character slowly finding their way to allies. Strings swell, a falcon soars, and you realise this is perhaps the first time Destiny has ever done more than telling a story: it s evoking a feeling.From there, admittedly, things plateau a bit. Most of the rest of the campaign is a fun romp, a getting-the-band-back-together clich  with a few diversions here and there, before everything comes together in an all-out raid on the City, and the end credits roll. Look: you aren t going to be writing letters home about this plot. Even for an MMO, it s fairly thin, lacking the epic sweep that players of more traditional online games like WoW or FFXV have come to expect. But it s the first time in the three years of Destiny s history that you can reasonably say to the sort of person who bought the  to play through the single-player campaign that the Bungie they know and love is back.But about three quarters of the way through the campaign, Destiny 2 (the single-player game) takes a short excursion, introducing you to its true form: Destiny 2 (the eternal experience). That s the second review that needs to be written.It s a far smoother introduction than that of the first game, which unceremoniously dropped you from the end credits back in the game world with no real explanation of how to progress, what the next goal was, or why you were still playing. Now, in the midst of the campaign, the game takes the time to introduce the activities you ll spend the next few months repeating, once the story is over: the patrols, the strikes and the crucible. By the time you do finish the campaign, you ll likely be champing at the bit to sink some real time into these things.It s when it comes to the variety and enjoyment of these activities that Destiny 2 shines. Compared to earlier iterations of the game, where players rapidly realised that one and only one gameplay loop offered valuable rewards, here Destiny goes out of its way to offer you an incentive to range widely over its cornucopia of delights. That hasn t stopped players finding a marginally more rewarding loop, even so (if you re a min-maxer, expect to spend a lot of time on Titan over the first few months), but it does mean the days of running in circles through Archer s Line on the moon desperately farming Helium Filaments are over.New clan features also mean the game is a far less lonely experience for those without many online friends, and a far more rewarding one for those who are used to playing with a group. Destiny rewards you for being in a clan   any clan   and then heaps further rewards on clans that play together.The core gameplay loop has always worked on a narrow level, because the Bungie team are, and always have been, the masters of making gunplay satisfying on a minute-to-minute level. Shooting aliens in the head feels good in this game, and when you start receiving exotic weapons in the latter half, it feels even better. But the wider loop, of continually getting new and better loot, spiralling your character towards the level cap, is also improved. It s no longer a toxic fruit machine, and the number of guaranteed rewards in the game is at a level where it s possible to avoid huge levels of frustration entirely. There s a chance, in fact, that it may be too generous: a game with a level cap of 300 should probably not see players reaching 293 within a week, before the raid was even released, as a member of my clan did. That s a hollow complaint, though, and if your only problem is you play the game too efficiently, then you ll probably find other things in its gargantuan world to occupy you soon after.The last review is for those who ve been clinging to the first game for three years, who just need to be reassured that everything s still on track: Destiny 2 is Destiny without the bullshit. Almost. Everything you hated about the first three years of the game has been refined, removed, or reappraised, and the game that was left was one that makes sense from toe to tip. And then Bungie added in just a little bit of extra bullshit, focused on endgame micro-transactions: Sparrows are now cosmetic items you receive randomly in the game s lootbox-style  bright engrams ; shaders, received the same way, are now single-use items, received in packs of three to five; and the faintest whiff of non-cosmetic paid upgrades exists in the armour and weapon  modifications , which you receive in the same way and use to boost your gear. It s not the end of the world, but it s a small preview of where you re likely to feel greatest irritation most rapidly. Ultimately, how it plays out in the long term comes down to how free the game is with these drops: currently, it looks like the intention is only to soak those who really want one specific exotic emote, or set of shaders. If that remains the case, I ll get over it.																																											