here is a lovely start to  (BBC2). Well, it s not lovely for Colin, or really a start for him, more like an end, the end. It s his birthday; his wife and daughter are throwing him a surprise birthday party. Trouble is, the surprise party exposes the Big Lie that Colin has been harbouring. Not only is he cheating on his wife but he has a whole other family, a mistress and another daughter (also called Catherine Walcott, to avoid mix-ups). The shock of suddenly being so publicly found out is too much for poor Colin; he has a heart attack, and sadly dies. Surprise!The end   of the show   is rather nice, too. Colin s ashes are scattered, by his daughters, the Catherine Walcotts, in a layby. Not because it was a favourite layby, but because it s exactly equidistant between where the Catherines live, and it was all they could agree on. Meanwhile, in the same layby by happy coincidence, Colin s wife Tess is having sex with a man she s just met on the internet ( as it happens: it makes me proud to work where I do), in his car.Well, trying to have sex, it s not going that well. The Kia might have scored well on fuel efficiency in Which Car but it s rubbish for sex in the front. Plus Tess s kaftan is in the way a bit, and she s not really over Colin to be honest, even if he was a lying, cheating, hypocritical bastard. He does finally get a better send-off: his ashes swept up off the layby (along with the odd fag butt), packed into a distress flare and fired into the Manchester night sky. Aww.But this is not about Colin. It is about Tess (Rebecca Front). And it s about her love rival Marilyn (Siobhan Finneran). And it s about the two Catherines, Cathy and Cat (Ellie White and Lauren Socha, respectively). It is these four women who fill the bit between the start and the end, and they do so very well. A lot of the humour comes from the social chasm between the half-sisters. Cathy is in reinsurance; she s organised and prissy, and she has a dull fiance called Marcus (though that might be in jeopardy after he sent some inadvisable picture texts and it looks as though his penis is about to go viral, flapping about all over social media). Cat works at Deliveroo and isn t with anyone at the moment.  Well, this summer I finally completed Tinder so I m just taking a bit of a breather,  she tells her new sister. Finally completed Tinder! That s a very good joke isn t it? Hats off , who wrote it. And it seems Cat really has completed Tinder; she knows every minor male character on it, knows them very well.Perhaps surprisingly, Cathy and Cat do find common ground. Not just because they share genes and a dad, but also a love of Supertramp (even if that obviously came via him). Nothing bridges a social chasm quite like a good 70s guilty pleasure carpool karaoke singalong. Like a king without a castle, Like a queen without a throne, I m an early morning lover, And I must be moving on   Lovely   and so very different   from White and Socha. Though perhaps unsurprisingly, it s Front who nicks the show off them. She wears the role like she wears that kaftan: exuberantly, with loads of colour and relish, and a bursting out a little.It s good to see a comedy pilot that is more about character and narrative momentum than it is about gags. And one that doesn t come with laughter included; you get to decide yourself whether to or not, almost like you re an adult. I am not convinced the premise screams six-episode series, but I d be delighted to be proved wrong. (E4) looks as though it totally fulfils the . Melvin Odoom, presenting, even says  think of it as a public service . Couple Charlotte and Darren both think they re better looking than the other. Darren is certainly buff.  Someone call a vet cos those swans are sick, bro,  says Melvin. About his biceps, obviously. (I know what it means as I get it quite a lot, too. Maybe I ll go on with my girlfriend, just so she knows she s punching too.) They take selfies and the public get to decide who is right. I think it can claim innovation, and maybe diversity. Plus it will inspire debate among viewers: she s hotter, no way, he s hotter  She s hotter! Charlotte. Well well. Wait, though: there s a further thrilling twist. Darren gets a style makeover, and then he s voted hotter! Don t you dare go telling me that s not important.																																											