here was a literal turning point in Eddie Izzard s lifelong pursuit of personal freedom. It came one afternoon in 1985 when he had gone out for the first time in a dress and heels and full makeup down Islington high street. He was 23 and he had been planning   and avoiding   that moment for just about as long as he could remember. The turning point came after he was chased down the road by some teenage girls who had caught him changing back into his jeans in the public toilets and wanted to let him know he was weird. That pursuit ended when eventually, faced with the screamed question  Hey, why were you dressed as a woman? , he decided simply to stop running and turn and explain himself.He spun around to give an answer, but before he got many words out the girls had run in the opposite direction. The experience taught him some things: that there was power in confronting fear rather than avoiding it; and that from then on he would never let other people define him. After that afternoon, he says, he not only felt he could face down the things that scared him, he went chasing after them: street performing, standup comedy, marathon running, political activism, improvising his stage show in different languages   all these things felt relatively easy after that original coming out as what he calls  transvestite or transgender .  You think, if I can do something that hard, but positive   maybe I can do anything. The  anything  he has been doing most recently is to take on the challenge of acting opposite Judi Dench and Michael Gambon. In Stephen Frears s interpretation of the true story of Queen Victoria s late-life friendship with an Indian servant, , Izzard plays a full-bearded, tweed-suited Bertie (later Edward VII), reining in his comic instincts to inhabit the outrage and scheming of a son seeing his mother apparently making a fool of herself. Izzard has done plenty of films before   he was in  and alongside George Clooney and Brad Pitt and the rest   but nothing that has required quite this level of costume drama restraint. He loved it.He and Dench are old friends. She has been a regular at his stage shows and has been in the habit, for reasons forgotten, of sending a banana to his dressing room each opening night, with  Good luck!  written on it. Seeing her channel Victoria at close quarters was a daily masterclass. The film was shot partly at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight (the first time any film crew had been allowed inside by ) and the cast would let their hair down in the evenings. One time, Izzard recalls:  I was dancing with Judi to Ray Charles s  What d I Say . She felt like a young woman, a young teenage girl almost. Judi has this amazing spark of vitality that traces all the way back to her youth. Watching the film, you re so ready to see Izzard slip into one of his wayward meanders of consciousness that for a while it seems odd that he stays on script. Does it feel that way to him too? Not now,  he says.  My early work as an actor wasn t very good because I just switched all my comedy muscles off, and I didn t know what to replace them with. I think I have learned more how to just  be  on film now. It is just like knowing how to both ride a bicycle and drive a car. If you are in a car you don t want to lean sideways to turn a corner. You know the difference. Ever since he bunked off school and conned his way into Pinewood Studios as a 15-year-old and wandered the film sets for a day, he has imagined himself an actor. The first thing he did when his comedy finally took off after years of trying and often failing to make people laugh was to get himself a drama agent and see if he could pursue a twin career. He has never been satisfied with just doing one thing, and it appears that determination to diversify has only grown. He s 55, and because of his running   which peaked at in the UK and    he looks lean and almost alarmingly bright-eyed. We are talking in a hotel room in London, and he is dressed sharply in  boy with eyeliner  mode. He works on the belief, he says, that human beings were never made to sit still or settle, but to place themselves in challenging situations, and then work out how to cope. World war two is a good example,  he suggests.  People got dropped behind enemy lines with no idea of what they were going into. They had to learn to do a great deal under extreme pressure and on the move. And they proved they could. In a very different way, I think coming out as transgender allowed me to put myself in other terrifying situations and work them out once I was in them. I knew I would get through the bad, terrifying bit   and there was a lot of that when I was a street performer   and eventually get to a more interesting place. He has, of late, paused to reflect on the motivations behind that impulse, first in a documentary film,  made by his ex-lover and long-term collaborator Sarah Townsend, and then in an autobiography, . The first two elements of that latter subtitle mostly led Izzard back to his mother, who died of cancer when he was six years old. Making the film, Townsend came to suggest that all Izzard s inspired digressive habits circled around this truth, and in his book, in opening chapters too poignant to read easily, he expands on that thought. Toward the end of the film, I started talking about my mother    he recalls.  And I said something revelatory:  I know why I m doing all this,  I said.  Everything I do in life is trying to get her back. I think if I do enough things  that maybe she ll come back.  When he said those words, he says, it felt like his unconscious speaking. The thought stayed with him that  I do believe I started performing and doing all sorts of big, crazy, ambitious things because on some level, on some childlike magical-thinking level, I thought doing those things might bring her back. I wonder, having got those things out into the public, nearly half a century on, if it has changed how he thinks about himself? I certainly feel I am in a better place,  he says   but also it has given him a sense of his own strangeness.  There is that thing where people say wow about the marathons or whatever. And I kind of say wow too, because there are some things I did that, looking back, I don t know how I did them.  a double marathon on the last day in South Africa. It was 11 hours of not fun. And about five minutes of euphoria. I m not sure how I did that. One of the things about marathons   even if you are running, as he was some of the time in the UK, followed by an ice-cream van blaring the theme   is that there is an awful lot of time for thinking. Does his mind ever pause for breath? I have a lucky thing,  he says,  which is that I am interested in any question   how did we get here? all the religions. I can think about anything. For example when I did the 43 [marathons] I ran past a sign saying  the Battle of Naseby: 1 mile  and I m immediately off thinking about Cromwell and Fairfax, Prince Rupert maybe, and how this road I was running on would have been a track back then and maybe the cavalry came down it, how did they get cannon round that bend, all that, at every moment   Talking to Izzard, and watching him perform, you sense he has a kind of need of not ever wanting to miss any scrap of experience. It s partly, he suggests, why he has broadened his repertoire of doing standup in different languages in recent years. German has been the hardest so far,  he says. He is doing Arabic next, planning a show in the Yemen (he was born in Aden, where his father worked for a time for BP) to draw attention to the brutal civil war there, and after that, Mandarin Chinese. As he explains this, blithely, I m reminded both of the passages in his book where he writes about the strategies he developed to overcome severe dyslexia as a child, and his uneasy relationship with his late stepmother, Kate. The antithesis of performing as a younger man for the memory of his mother was a refusal to be limited by Kate s efforts to control him. She wanted him to be an accountant because he was good with numbers, if not with reading. He recalls her once telling him:  You ve got to understand that you are a cog in the machine. As soon as you understand that, you can fit in and get on with life.  You can only imagine how that went down. Does he ever think he will become more accepting of limits? I have a very strong sense that we are only on this planet for a short length of time,  he says.  And that is only growing. Religious people might think it goes on after death. My feeling is that if that is the case it would be nice if just one person came back and let us know it was all fine, all confirmed. Of all the billions of people who have died, if just one of them could come through the clouds and say, you know,  It s me Jeanine, it s brilliant, there s a really good spa , that would be great.  He pauses.  Although what if heaven was only like three-star, OK-ish. You know,  Some of the taps don t work   He puts his success down not to any particular talent, but to his being  brilliantly boring. Some people are maybe brilliantly interesting. But I have the opposite gift.  That, and stamina, and that unlimited curiosity about the world.For a BBC series about genealogy he went to Africa to trace the percentage of his genetic make-up that was Neanderthal. It reinforced his sense that there was nothing new under the sun, that people had always been the same.  We never think of cavemen being envious of the neighbours with the better cave, but no doubt they were,  he says.In villages in Namibia, women were fascinated by his nail varnish; some of the men, too.  You know if you have a football and some nail polish and a smile you can walk into any village in the world and find friends,  he says.  There are 7 billion of us on the planet now and we should be linking up more. Ninety-nine per cent of us would be live-and-let-live and  Hi and how are you? . But the 1% aren t happy with that, they want to actively stir it up and tell us that is not the way to go on. Talk of politics is a reminder of Izzard s interventions in last year s referendum campaign, in which he tried to use his experiences of doing comedy in French and German and Spanish as an example of how Europe might be a place where you could share culture, rather than be defensive about it. In those fevered weeks, his arguments were sometimes made to look naive; the and the rest roasted him after  on .He admits that he is sometimes still learning in politics, but is unrepentant about his efforts to try to advance a cause that he has been engaged in as a performer for a long while. Running and hiding from Europe cannot be the way forward for us,  he says.  The idea that Britain can go back to 1970 and it will still be all the same just can t be an option. Does he think there is still hope for Remainers? It seems to me people are always capable of being either brave and curious or fearful and suspicious. If you track humanity all the way through, the periods of success for civilisation are those periods where we have been brave and curious. There is plenty of fear and suspicion in the world though. How does he think it will go? I don t know. If you look at the 1930s there are obviously clear examples of how individuals can spin these kinds of fears and twist them, and then you get what historians usually call mass-murdering fuckheads in power. He has long talked of looking to run as a Labour MP in the next election. Is that still the case? Yes, the plan was always to run in 2020, though Theresa May has changed that with her failed power grab. So now it s the first general election after 2020. He will also put himself forward for Labour s national executive committee at the party conference this year. He didn t make it last time, though he got 70,000 votes. And if and when he becomes an MP, he will give up acting and performing? I would. It s like Glenda Jackson; she gave up acting for 25 years to concentrate on it, then she turns up back as . I wonder if another ambition, to eventually have children, still applies? I always said kids in my 50s. But I also always felt that I had to do things first. Get this stuff done. But yes, I haven t given up on that. For someone who was dealt an early lesson about the fragility of life, his long-term planning sounds odd. Does he feel that contradiction? I think we should all choose a year we would like to live to, and do everything we can to make that work. I mean it could all go wrong at any point, obviously. But we also know that if we don t get ill or get hit by a bus we can help ourselves by drinking enough water and keeping as fit as you were when you were a kid. As we get older and we get a bit creaky we take that as a sign to stop doing stuff. My sense is we should push through creaky. I was feeling a bit sluggish recently, about a month ago, I thought right, I ll do seven marathons in seven days. And off I go. The first four were a bit rubbish, but you push on through that. He must have good joints? I mangled my knee up a while ago, trying to jump over a fence,  he says.  But it healed up, and now it complains only when I don t use it enough. Is there some genetic explanation for his energy? Dad loved football, played until his late 30s. I don t know about Mum. She liked singing and comedy and Flanders and Swann but I m not sure about sport. I hear his voice break just slightly. Izzard still can t really talk about his mother easily, at least not in an interview. In his book he describes how in the immediate aftermath of her death he and his dad and his brother cried together for half an hour and then stopped in case they went on for ever. In place of therapy dad bought his sons a model railway set and they built it in the spare room and immersed themselves in it. The set recently resurfaced when Izzard had it restored and donated it to a museum in their home town of Bexhill-on-Sea, another part of his excavation of that time. Dad encouraged us with it after Mum died,  he says, by way of explanation.  He made a table for us and we spent hours and hours building it. Then in 1975 my stepmother, Kate, came along and it was put away into boxes and never came out again. It went from Dad s attic to my brother s attic, and he didn t know what to do with it. I thought, why not give it to the museum in Bexhill? I guessed there might be plenty of model railway enthusiasts in Bexhill, and they rebuilt this thing, it s kind of a collector s item. They are now going to build another one, a Christmas version. We had a grand opening and Dad came down to see it. He likes the fact that he is in a position to make these kinds of things happen. Is he happier now than ever? I always wanted the kind of profile that you can leverage to do the things you want,  he says.  There is no path into it. You have to work out how you get there   over the wall, or tunnel your way in. I always thought doing the same thing was actually going backwards. And if you start saying  Hi, I like chicken  on some advert, you know you have probably reached that point. You hesitate a little to ask him what he is working on next, but I do anyway. I ve written my first film,  he says.  It is called , set in the summer of 1939. I m developing a show in French in Paris. This December I am going to be on a boat, just below Notre Dame, doing two shows nightly. What else? I m not a good reader but I always wanted to read all of Dickens, so I have found someone who will let me read them as audiobooks   I have done a third of  and it took four days. So: 12 days. And then there is the premiere of  for which Dad is coming up from Bexhill to spend his 89th birthday with Judi Dench Out of all the things he has done, I ask, of what is he proudest? Mostly I hope I have done things that help other people to do them,  he says.  That was the thing with coming out as transgender, and it was the same thing doing the marathons, or learning the languages. I hope people might think, well if that idiot can do it, why can t I? I mean, I m just some guy, right. Nothing special? I m not quite convinced.																																											