here s a common phrase often uttered by established actors working within the studio system to define their career strategy: one for them and one for me. It allows for a steady stream of income from big-budget fodder but also for regular soul-cleansing sojourns into artier territory. Ben Stiller s trajectory has often followed this path, and with age, it appears as if he s leaning more towards the latter with his regrettable Zoolander sequel proving to be just a greasy appetizer for meatier, festival-dwelling material.After receiving warm notices at Cannes for his role in The Meyerowitz Stories, his third film with Noah Baumbach, he s now teaming up with underrated multi-hyphenate Mike White for Brad s Status, premiering at Toronto. It s familiar territory for Stiller, who s found much to explore in similarly introspective comedy dramas, and at times this sense of deja vu threatens to distract from the nifty observations on offer. Brad s status? It s complicated.Stiller plays the titular character, a family man and the head of a non-profit organization, who feels underwhelmed by the life he s made for himself. It s not that he has it particularly bad, but his college friends just seem to have it so much better. Brad spends too much time bitterly scrolling through their latest social media updates, seething at the glamorous lifestyles they appear to have, resenting the decisions that led him to where he now is. When he heads to Boston with his son Troy (Austin Abrams) to check out potential colleges, he finds himself in something of a tailspin, his deep-rooted unhappiness boiling to the surface.As with writer/director White s finest work, from The Good Girl to short-lived HBO show Enlightened, there s a great deal of perceptive humor here. Brad s obsession with coveting the constructed Insta-lives of friends is an uneasily recognizable problem, also recently explored in Ingrid Goes West, and his flip-flopping between accepting and rejecting his lot in life makes for similarly uncomfortable viewing. It s well-worn territory for Stiller, who s riffed on this before in Greenberg and While We re Young, and his casting is both well-suited and somewhat repetitive. It s infinitely more pleasurable to see him in a more nuanced comedy, but his dissatisfied indie schtick is in danger of becoming just as overused as his broader Meet the Parents persona. He skates perilously close here but his performance remains one of the most consistent pleasures of what feels like a patchier version of far superior films. White s screenplay is hampered by a rather redundant voiceover that s full of tiresomely on-the-nose realizations ( Sometimes in life you can lose the plot  and  This is not the life I imagined  feeling particularly inane). It s frustratingly lazy and inelegant, clunkily signposting Brad s emotional state at points where the viewer is perfectly able to figure it out without such hand-holding. It s a film that s in need of more confident, subtle direction, with White s long-time collaborator Miguel Arteta sadly absent and White himself taking on the job for just the second time.While White might not make for an entirely convincing film-maker, his script still reveals his considerable skills as a humorist. As with his last script for the short, sharp Beatriz at Dinner, he s found a way to tap into issues that feel prescient without feeling preachy. Brad s funk is the direct result of his fragile, conflicted masculinity. He resents being surrounded by  beta males  yet mourns for the political and intellectual idealism of his youth. He both respects and resents money, craving it and idolizing it while critiquing the effect it has on others. He tells his son that as a white kid he s now the  underdog  and, in one smart extended sequence, a young female student calls out Brad s white privilege for his self-obsessed wallowing. But who hasn t wanted more even when they arguably have enough? There s enough emotional intelligence here to resist labelling Brad a buffoon or a self-diagnosed victim and his complaints will likely resonate with a lot of people. There s also a fantastic naturalistic performance from Abrams as Brad s son and their conversations have a wonderful beat to them, believably shifting from warmth to tension within seconds. Brad s Status is a frustrating concoction. There s a script full of insight but also inanity and while the performances might jump out, the direction falls flat. Stiller is back on the right route but, like Brad, he could afford to take a more daring detour every now and then.																																											