here s a joke a friend s father used to tell, a variant of an old Mae West line.  I ve been rich and miserable, I ve been poor and miserable. And let me tell you: rich is better.  The Upside, a Hollywood remake of the , is a movie about a depressed quadriplegic and unloved ex-con, and still manages to be an aspirational film in the Nancy Meyers vein because of friendship, the triumph of the human spirit and really luxurious Park Avenue apartments.The penthouse Bryan Cranston s Phil lives in is practically Wonka s factory to Dell (Kevin Hart), who lives in public housing when his girlfriend hasn t thrown him out. Dell is a deadbeat dad who needs to prove he s still going on fruitless job interviews to appease his parole officer. A mix-up lands him at Phil s just as he and his major-domo (Nicole Kidman) are taking applicants for a new aide specifically trained in the lifting, feeding and being an all-around lifeline for someone paralysed from the neck down. In an act of defiance (or maybe he just has a good sense), the well-groomed Phil decides this unkempt loose cannon is the only man for the job.When Dell first moves in there s some rags-to-riches schtick (a talking shower - in German!) and with Hart s abundant comic ability one is reminded of the Eddie Murphy film Trading Places. Cranston (whose career began in American sitcoms like Seinfeld and Malcolm in the Middle before achieving a greater level of notoriety on Breaking Bad) is a perfect straight man for Hart. Phil is the square rich guy one minute (the line  nor she I  gets a big laugh); thinking one step ahead of the streetwise Dell the next. The Hart and Cranston show is an unending volley of zings and these two men are more than pros   they re heroes.Things soon get weird, though. Even though The Upside (and the original French film) is loosely based on a real story, the suggestion is that all a bummed-out wealthy dude needs to get his blood pumping is to keep a pet  around the house. He s irreverent and clever and eager to fix problems, and with just a little training he starts liking the snooty stuff he once scorned like opera and painting.Director Neil Burger (The Illusionist, Limitless) and screenwriter Jon Hartmere inject some self-aware commentary, but that doesn t totally negate a racial queasiness that permeates the entire film. There will be some audience members that, no matter how funny Hart and Cranston are, will reject another Driving Miss Daisy scenario, and it s very difficult to argue that they are wrong.This is not much more than a light crowdpleaser, but when you ve got two powerhouse performers like this it is very difficult not to find oneself at least temporarily charmed. (Kidman, alas, is very much in the background, but is sturdy, as are smaller players like Julianna Margulies and Golshifteh Farahani.) There are some extended sequences, like a drawn-out bit involving a catheter, that mostly plays to the cheap seats, but much of the verbal jousting is really sharp. Truly, this extremely by-the-numbers, manipulative and formulaic film is as funny as its framework allows it to be. It wouldn t surprise me if the American remake is as financially successful as the original. 																																											