here s an irony to the title of Roddy Doyle s 11th novel, in that the book eschews most of his trademark humour and the laughs fall thin on the ground. His darkest and perhaps finest work since  20 years ago,  combines tropes from the various strands of Doyle s career   childhood memories from , middle-aged regrets from  and , pub conversations from    and merges them into a unique novel, one that is terribly moving and even, at times, distressing, while saving its greatest surprise until the end. is narrated by Victor Forde, who finds himself alone in middle age, seeking the solace of a pint in his new local, Donnelly s pub. There he is interrupted in his reading by Fitzpatrick, who declares himself to be an old friend, although Victor is slow to remember him. Fitzpatrick, while uncouth, is affable and eager to talk, falling quickly into nostalgia with unsettling memories of their shared youth attending, like Doyle himself, a school run by the notorious Christian Brothers.  What was the name of the Brother that used to fancy you?  he asks, and his apparently innocuous question leaves Victor immediately hostile.  I wanted to hit him,  he tells us.  I wanted to kill him   I hated this man, whoever he was. Despite an inauspicious start to their reunion, Victor finds the pub to be a place of safety; he goes there evening after evening and slowly ingratiates himself with the other regulars. His loneliness is profound, but the drink loosens him up enough to consider the things that he has lost: his ex-wife, Rachel, who has become a media celebrity through her television show, and his own music journalism career, which began with great promise but somehow never took off and has now finally ground to a halt.As with much of Doyle s work, however, it is childhood that lies at the heart of the story: a broken, troubled childhood whose traumas have been buried deep within Victor s psyche for decades. A living, cursing, badly dressed version of Proust s madeleine, it only takes Fitzpatrick s appearance to summon up every facet of his pain with traumatic results.The reason for the novel s title is revealed early on. In a classroom full of?mischief-makers, Brother Murphy, a?small but violent teacher who exercised power over his students with ruthless cruelty, had always left Victor alone, his explanation coming in eight words that would define the boy s schooldays and make him the object of?scorn among his peers:  Victor Forde, I can never resist your smile. It s a chilling line, one that, were it said today by a teacher to a student, would probably result in the police being called, but it s enough to silence a gaggle of aggressive 13-year-olds more accustomed to random acts of violence than unexpected words of flattery. Murphy s words single Victor out, they make him question what he has done to encourage such adulation, and lend the cover image, a small boy grinning in apparent good humour, a?sinister motivation.Another common theme of Doyle s work is the quixotic games that memory plays on us. It s there in , where impish recollections give way to a growing awareness of a failing marriage. It runs through the Last Roundup trilogy, charting the course of Ireland over a long and violent century through the eyes of an often unreliable narrator, Henry Smart, who remembers things as he wants to remember them. But it is at its most effective here where Victor s memories are continually challenged by Fitzpatrick, a Jiminy Cricket of sorts, sitting on Victor s shoulder, forcing him to confront the demons from his past.Throughout, there s a sense that Victor is going through a mixture of catharsis and breakdown, taking responsibility for his actions while finally allowing himself to explore the ordeals of his youth. All of this is done within the church-like atmosphere of the pub, a setting that Doyle has frequently used as a place for friendships to thrive, jokes to be made and eulogies to be spoken, but also as a location for husbands to escape their wives, where men can revel in their masculinity before returning home to engage in drunken violence upon the women and children they claim to love. There is none of the hilarity of the two old codgers from  here; Victor and Fitzpatrick are combatants from the start and the atmosphere of tension that lingers over their conversations is?palpable.While Doyle has never been a particularly experimental writer, he takes great risks with his story as the novel progresses. To say more would be to spoil the truly unexpected climax that  reaches, but suffice to say that to call this the least Roddyesque of?Doyle s work would be an understatement. There is a brave and complex ending to the novel, one that will leave readers astonished, and it s possible that not everyone will find it convincing, although I would not be among their number. Like all good literature, it will inspire debate but also admiration for the courage of a hugely successful writer who refuses to be predictable and uses the novel to challenge both the reader s sense of ease and the nature of the form itself. John Boyne s latest novel is  (Doubleday). is published by Jonathan Cape. To order a copy for ?12.74 (RRP ?14.99) go toor call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											