Late-night hosts on Monday addressed the administration’s response to , the media’s response to Trump’s deal with Democrats to lift the debt ceiling, and Steve Bannon’s appearance on 60 Minutes with Charlie Rose.Seth Meyers began: “As his administration deals with the aftermath of Hurricane Irma, President Trump is also dealing with a brewing storm within his own party over his decision to strike a funding deal with Democrats, prompting an absurd new round of punditry over whether  is actually a Republican.“For one thing, there were the heroic acts of first responders rescuing people in the storm,” he continued. “Now, you’d think applauding the bravery of emergency responders like the coastguard would be one of the easiest things a president could do, but even that, it seems, was too much to ask of Donald Trump, who praised the coastguard yesterday by saying this.”Meyers then aired footage of Trump lauding its quick response, adding: “If you talk about branding, no brand has improved more than the US Coast Guard.”“Branding? What are you talking about?,” Meyers asked. “The coastguard doesn’t need to improve their brand. They’re not Arby’s.”“Yesterday, in the midst of the storm, president Trump’s director of social media, Dan Scavino, who has repeatedly attacked reporters and accused them of spreading fake news, tweeted a video of what he said was flooding in Miami international airport,” the host continued. “Now, it was an intense scene, so the tweet had a lot of replies, including this one from Miami international airport, that said ‘This video is not from Miami international airport’.”“You know you’re bad at your job when even airports are correcting you,” Meyers quipped, before moving onto the response from Republicans and journalists to Trump’s spending deal with the Democrats.“Trump stunned Republicans last week by cutting a deal with Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi to lift the debt limit and keep the government funded for three months,” he explained. “Just to give you an idea of how unhappy Republicans were with the president’s sudden friendship with the Democrats, look at Mitch McConnell’s face during their meeting with Trump in the oval office last week.”Meyers showed a clip of McConnell in the meeting: “He looks like he just saw a fellow ghost,” Meyers added.“Trump’s hostility to to certain Republicans in Congress, like senators John McCain and Jeff Flake, have GOP leaders worried ahead of next year’s midterms,” he said. “Trump got one deal with Democrats to keep the government open to avoid financial chaos, and now all of a sudden there is a rush of praise from the media crowning him as America’s first independent president.”Meyers then showed a slew of headlines, from publications such as the Associated Press, New York Times, and the Washington Post, that wondered whether the deal represented a new, centrist Trump.“Can we just stop with this absurd taking point?,” Meyers said. “Donald Trump is not an independent. The only thing he is independent of is reality.” of Comedy Central also weighed in on the weekend’s news, including Steve Bannon’s interview with Charlie Rose.“It’s been almost a month since president Trump fired , his chief strategist and human sloppy joe,” Noah began. “Now, during his time with Trump, Bannon operated from the shadows, but last night he braved the lights of 60 Minutes to give his first major TV interview.”Noah then showed intermittent clips from the interview, including Bannon’s speculation about Republicans trying to “nullify the election results,” “illegal aliens filling churches,” and whether or not the Washington Monument would be the next statue removed by leftwing activists.“Wow, it’s like Donald Trump took a dump while he was tweeting and then wished for that dump to be a real boy,” Noah joked. “I will name it Steve.”Noah continued: “Bannon’s interview wasn’t particularly eye-opening. Mostly, he just willingly confirmed that he is who we thought he was: a radical nationalist who believes that Donald Trump will be instrumental in tearing down the establishment. But one moment really showed how all-in he is on Trump.”Noah then showed the portion of Bannon’s interview about the infamous Access Hollywood tape showing Trump bragging about sexually assaulting women. Bannon said the fiasco was a “litmus test” for who would stick by then-candidate Trump, adding that Chris Christie was not made part of the White House team because of his comments that weekend condemning Trump’s language.“Man, that’s loyalty,” Noah said. “Even after Trump fired Bannon, he’s still going to fight for him from outside the White House. If Donald Trump ever killed someone, Bannon will be the guy driving the white supremacist Bronco.”“I don’t know if you noticed this, but Bannon has a very interesting way of rebranding the infamous Donald Trump pussy-grabbing scandal,” Noah said, showing clips from the interview in which Bannon refers to the October incident as “Billy Bush Saturday” and “Billy Bush weekend.”“Billy Bush weekend?” Noah responded. “Poor Billy Bush. Somewhere he must have bene watching that, like, ‘come on man, I was just  the bus. You can’t name something after someone who happened to be there. That’s like rebranding the JFK assassination ‘Motorcade Driver’s Bad Day’”.“Now if there’s one issue Bannon is known for as well, it’s his opposition to immigration,” Noah said, showing a clip of Bannon, in response to a question about Trump’s controversial decision to end Daca, reiterating his stance on immigration and saying America is founded on her citizens. “And on that front, he did not budge an inch.”“I don’t even know why he’s fighting about this,” Noah said. “We all know America is a nation of immigrants.” The Daily Show, in fact, went into the archives to discover that Lawrence Bannon, the great-great-grandfather of the former White House adviser, immigrated to the country in the 1850s from Ireland.“So, in many way’s, Steve Bannon’s great grandfather was a Dreamer,” Noah concluded. “And his great-grandson is a fucking nightmare.”