onald Trump, against the odds, seems determined to build his “tall, powerful, beautiful” wall along the Mexican border – although it needs to be see-through, he now thinks, so that border agents won’t get surprised by “” being tossed over. , he notoriously referred to Mexicans coming to the US as “bringing crime” and as “rapists”. Without doubt, Trump gives a political piquancy to the grand festival of exhibitions and events about to begin in southern California, one that has as its motto “a celebration beyond borders”. involves more than 70 galleries and museums, all of which are addressing the theme of Latin American and Latino art in dialogue with Los Angeles. La la land for the next six months will become la la la land, as the city of dreams (if not, thanks to Trump, of ‘’) underlines its importance as a world art capital.PST was initiated and is largely funded by the Getty Foundation, the world’s richest visual art institution, which has provided more than $16 million in grants. When I speak to its president, Jim Cuno, he says the theme was decided some years ago, when “borders weren’t so sharply in our mind”. But he adds: “We welcome the political dimension that it now has” not least because a discussion of centuries of culture can make clear how such frontiers “are always being renegotiated … The border between the US and Mexico, say, from the perspective of hundreds of years, is always a temporary phenomenon.”, Cuno says, “for most of its history has been a Latin American city, a Spanish-speaking city,, and before too long it will be predominantly Spanish-speaking again”. Various curators have suggested that PST artworks will challenge ideas of the United States – not only due to the festival’s recognition of the huge Latino presence in the country, but also because the US will be approached, much more than is usual, as part of a constantly changing history of the Americas, not as an exceptional case.“Our job wasn’t to direct, but to facilitate,” Cuno says. The Getty left it up to individual institutions to “rehearse the divisive issues”. PST is also “not a reductive exercise” designed to establish a canon, but a window on to a hugely varied artistic landscape. Among the vast array of shows in the next months will be  centred on a tour Walt Disney made south of the border in 1941 as part of a “good neighbour” exercise intended to counter Nazi propaganda. Disney was sufficiently inspired to make The Three Caballeros, which had Donald Duck dancing a samba and breaking open a pi?ata, and which later was cited in Latin America as one of countless examples of US cultural imperialism. showcases the bold and witty graphic design of Cuban film posters for US films, not least those of Charlie Chaplin, who was revered in revolutionary Cuba, as the curators underline, “for his heroic depictions of the dispossessed worker” struggling with capitalist exploitation. His toothbrush moustache, bowler hat and heavy eyebrows became emblems of mobile movie theatres taken by “truck, boat, and mule to some of the most remote areas of Cuba”. Also featured are posters for films by Hitchcock, Kubrick and starring Marilyn Monroe, whose support for the revolution and the US civil rights movement as well as her solidarity with the blacklisted Hollywood writers during McCarthyism “endeared her to the Cuban people”.Cuno particularly mentions , an exhibition at the “extraordinarily vital” Hammer museum in LA, which considers art that used the female body as a form of political protest, in an era of  and repressive regimes. There is a photographic record of a performance in which Colombian artist María Evelia Marmolejo cut her feet before she walked on paper laid throughout a public square, leaving a trail of blood. The Hammer show is in part an exercise in retrieving forgotten activity: also documented is the Mexican artist Maris Bustamante’s conceptual work in which she patented the taco. She would also appear on stage wearing an apron, as if she had come straight from the kitchen, and throw firecrackers to suggest gunshots, before jokily threatening: “Nobody leaves a lecture on feminist art!”The days when the nabobs of the art community were interested solely in Diego and Frida, or in Latin American artists only when they touched on the accepted north-oriented narrative (when  etc), are now distant. The story is no longer about “connections between ‘them and us’”, Cuno says, but vibrant indigenous cultural expression. And today there is a “missionary zeal” to rewrite art history with many new chapters.The current art carnival is the second Pacific Standard Time. Cuno arrived at the Getty in 2011 just as the first one – which explored art in LA from 1945 to 1980 – was beginning. It had already become clear, he says, that “the art world was wider and more complicated than simply Europe and New York”, and that LA was “a dramatic and important player in the education, exhibition and housing of artists” – the latter because studio space was relatively cheap. The first PST “exploded with great excitement”, he recalls, not least because of the unique nature of the collaboration: he has talked of “a youthful, sunny disposition” on the part of Californian colleagues in joining together. When the second iteration was being planned, therefore, “all we had to do was open the door and the world wanted to rush in”.We’re speaking in Cuno’s office at the Getty Center, the palatial modern complex of white marble and glass on a hill that rises above LA’s smoggy heat haze. When it was built in the early 1990s, the Getty came under fire for removing itself from a troubled city – the Center’s sparkling building was deemed an embodiment of elitism. Cuno says that the huge number of visitors it attracts has proved critics wrong (its views are a pull: “This isn’t San Francisco, there isn’t a Hampstead Heath, we don’t have high points to look out from”). But it seems evident, too, that PST is important in connecting the wealthy Getty with the southern Californian art explosion, bringing the Foundation down from the hill.The Center will itself put on high-prestige exhibitions – including , a display of treasures from the royal courts of the Mayans, Incas and Aztecs. But thanks to PST, it also has a direct link with closer-to-the-ground contemporary art, such as . And the inclusion of Latino as well as Latin American art simply made this PST “even more deliciously complicated that we had imagined”. of faceless, dark-skinned workers into Hockney tableaux of sun-dazzled swimming pools is an example, within PST, of Latino art adding a layer to an increasingly complex visual history. Another is the work of the Mexico-born Carlos Almaraz, a leading force in the Chicano arts movement of the 1970s, who is the subject of . His car-crash paintings were not only a comment on California automobile culture and a freeway-dominated city, but were refractions of such recent art as Judy Chicago’s sprayed Car Hood and Ed Ruscha’s photographs of parking lots and gas stations. Latino artists were significant even in the first, 60s-70s stage of the LA art revolution, when, as Cuno describes it, there was “great excitement about the laid-back openness of California”, and the state became “what New York had been in terms of the public imagination”.He says there is now “an even greater wave of younger people … central and east LA are opening up. There’s a lot of focus, new galleries and growth.” He is enthusiastic that the Getty “can help to create the conditions in which it can all thrive’. Much of the funding has been directed towards scholarship, archives and catalogues, so that PST leaves roots behind. As all the marvels of LA/LA are about to be uncovered, and the topic it explores glints with subversion, Cuno has one over-riding hope: “That we can look back five years from now and say that things changed.”