his month, lucky eight-plus readers can plunge into the green wilds of  s marvellous new novel,  (Bloomsbury). Stranded in the Amazon rainforest, Fred, Lila, Max and Con overcome their initial terror to adapt to the uncompromising fierceness and beauty of their surroundings, gradually shedding the constraints of home   and discovering much more than they expected. Hannah Horn s delicate line drawings encroach, vine-like, on Rundell s dangerous, intoxicating pages in this love-song to the natural world and those who find release in it. This is essential reading for lovers of .Also for eight plus comes a Newbery medal-winner by Kelly Barnhill,  (Piccadilly)   a poignant, humorous fantasy with glints of Margaret Mahy, Neil Gaiman and Robin McKinley. It features a village that sacrifices its children and a?witch who saves them, a swamp monster who speaks in mellifluous poetry and a?girl growing up perilously powerful, without knowing why. This is a gorgeously stratified and satisfying novel, full of archetypal, bone-deep fairytale resonances.Bestselling  author Robin Stevens turns to homage, meanwhile, in  (Puffin), both a tremendous art-theft whodunnit and a loving tribute to the much-missed author Siobhan Dowd. This sequel to Dowd s  scoops up Ted, a rigid thinker with a gift for analysis, his tempestuous sister Kat and Salim, his cousin, with an assured and gentle hand, setting them down in New York City, where Ted and Kat s Aunt Gloria is a curator at the Guggenheim art museum. When a Kandinsky is stolen and Gloria is arrested, though, it s up to the young detectives to clear her name ... Stevens s deft, philosophical writing lends itself perfectly to her continuation of Dowd s work.For readers who like a frisson of fear, Pam Smy s ominous, hefty hardback,  (David Fickling), is a rule-breaker in the vein of Brian Selznick s    a skin-crawling story of a derelict house haunted by past cruelties, told almost entirely via illustration, with some help from found texts and tattered ancient diaries. Smy s intense chiaroscuro, delicately drawn handmade dolls and spare, evocative detail, with pure black pages marking the division of days, combine to create an unsettling, deeply memorable read.Elsewhere, in picture-books for much younger children, creator Herv  Tullet returns with  (Chronicle), an anarchically interactive mixture of white space, coloured dots and reader-supplied sound, with a  feel to its imaginative sparseness. Press the blue dot and say OH   get louder or softer, wavery or still   add a yellow dot, AH   and the delightful mayhem can only end in a rainbow universe of sound.In a departure from previous, playfully epistolary picture-books, Tom Percival takes to the skies with  (Bloomsbury), starring a boy hero who is unremarkable until he grows a pair of wings. Worried that people will think his soaring antics weird, he conceals them beneath a coat   but what are others hiding in their turn? This joyous, original paean to individuality is sophisticated but deftly judged; quirky children just starting to sense the invisible burden of peer-group disapproval should find it especially heartening.Meanwhile, , by Pip Jones and Sara Ogilvie (Simon & Schuster), features an inventor girl, a disabled crow, an encouraging granddad and a thumbs-up to resilience. Izzy s strange devices don t always work as they should   but when she designs prosthetic wings for a wounded bird, her grandfather pushes her to persist, despite failure and fury. Jones s loping, engaging rhymes and Ogilvie s vivacious images evoke both inspiration and frustration.There s more from Pip Jones for five-to-eight-year-olds in  (Faber), the turbulent tale of a grandiloquent guinea pig. Disconsolate to have reached the age of three (that s 30?in guinea pig years) with nothing to show for it, Handsome sets off to the seaside to achieve world renown, with a gruff budgie named Jeffry for company. Engagingly silly wordplay, bumbling burglars and Adam Stower s diverting drawings make for a winningly frivolous formula.Young readers with a yen for Egyptology have a treat in store with  (Bloomsbury), a richly involving non-fiction title from Patricia Cleveland-Peck, interlaid with Isabel Greenberg s charismatic illustrations. Moving smoothly from the boy king s daily life to the discovery and excavation of his tomb, it s packed with accessible, intriguing information.From 360 Degrees is the fascinating , created by Libby Walden, and featuring illustrations from 10 artists, each bringing a unique and appropriate style to their allocated city. From the secrets of London s Royal Mail post train to the smoke-signals of the Vatican, the detail hiding beneath the oversized flaps creates a real sense of insider knowledge.For teenagers, MA Bennett reinvigorates the boarding-school thriller with her debut  (Hot Key), set in the eponymous St Aidan the Great School, where tension runs high between the Medievals   the aristocratic student elite, who shun modern tech as inimical to their traditions   and those less sophisticated pupils dubbed Savages. When scholarship girl Greer receives a cryptic invitation to the head Medieval s country house offering  huntin , shootin , fishin , she is flattered enough to accept   only to discover the quarry isn t what she expected. This is a darkly compelling examination of the allure of privilege, and the unscrupulous means by which it preserves itself.More light-heartedly, seasoned collaborators Tom Ellen and Lucy Ivison (, ) return with  (Chicken House), a hilarious, truthful-feeling immersion in the mandatory  fun , self-reinvention and stranger-crowded loneliness of freshers  week. Narrated by Luke, who is navigating a long-distance break-up, and Phoebe, nursing a long-held crush on Luke, it s a messy, cringey, comically evocative no-mance.Finally, from Stripes,  is a wide-ranging and dynamic anthology by 12 black and minority ethnic authors. From Phoebe Roy s feather-growing teenage girl to Inua Ellams s poetic summary of experience left behind, it deals compellingly with its Ovidian theme of change. With work from familiar names (Nikesh Shukla, Catherine Johnson) and newcomers (Aisha Busby, Mary Florence Bello), there is?considerable variety   but never a dud?note.																																											