his tennis film feels like a two-hour baseline rally, and it s not just the rackets that are made of wood. It is all about  between supercool Swede Bj?rn Borg and the superbrat challenger from New York, John McEnroe   played respectively by Sverrir Gudnason and Shia LaBeouf. It culminates in their first, titanic Wimbledon confrontation in the 1980 final. That really was an unbearably tense contest, but at the end of this film my nails remained salon-fresh. The awful truth was that for all their rivalry and wildly different styles, there wasn t any needle between these two men personally, no tension, nothing outside the tennis court for us to get excited about.Really, almost any other pairing of characters from this film would have been more interesting: there is McEnroe/Peter Fleming, his compatriot player and supposed friend on whom John might have played nasty gamesmanship tricks in the changing room. There s McEnroe/McEnroe Sr, the demanding dad and professional lawyer who drove him hard. And there s Borg/, the coach and mentor played by  with a perpetual look of priestly sorrow.Bergelin was Borg s tough trainer from when he was a teenager, the man who beat out of the young Swede precisely that kind of immature tantrum for which McEnroe later became notorious: telling him to focus his energies on the game. Borg s real-life son Leo plays the young star between nine and 12 years old. There is one startling scene where the later-teen Borg, after a stern rebuke, storms off into some remote Swedish woodland for a dark-twilight-of the-tennis-soul, raging at the game and at himself, smashing away at the splintering bark with his racket. This scene may have been inspired by Andy Samberg in the comedy Hot Rod, doing his famous cathartic dance in the forest.Actually, the film does show the adult Borg getting cross with Bergelin, even firing him. But it s so banal, you wonder if anything has happened at all.  You re acting like a baby, treating the people who care for you like dirt!  shouts Lennart. Is he? I must have missed that. All I could see was him being bland. You find yourself waiting for something to happen that isn t a tennis match, and the tennis itself conforms to the rule that tennis on film isn t exciting. Something about the grammar and structure of movie editing cancels the rhythm and cumulative drama of tennis itself.Well, LaBeouf is good casting   really, the only possible casting   and he channels McEnroe s simmering resentment and winner-rage plausibly enough. (I wonder if there were any real-estate moguls in New York around that time for him to model himself on?) As for Borg, Gudnason is certainly an eerie lookalike. But his performance seems set on showing us that underneath that bland, slightly dull exterior there was a   well, let s just say he seems the complete master of his personality. Borg suppressed his temper to become a great tennis player; but then McEnroe did the opposite and he s a great player too. So what s the life lesson here? What s the point? They re both great players, great guys, and there s a kind of self-cancelling evenness at work. The sweatband remains dry. Duels or sporting contests or grudge matches of any sort can make successful cinema: there was , about racing drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda, and of course  about the famous interview. Audiences have yet to see the forthcoming Battle of the Sexes, with Emma Stone and Steve Carell as tennis players , fighting to see whether men s or women s tennis is better. However that comes out, it s a tennis film which has the advantage of being about something other than tennis. As far as this goes, Borg and McEnroe have all the bromance chemistry of Paul Bettany and Kirsten Dunst in the notorious romcom . It feels like someone s been over-diluting the Robinson s Barley Water.																																											