his week the email from the Man Booker s publicity team arrived, with its announcement of the shortlist: three Americans; two debuts; two formerly shortlisted authors; one winner of a major prize set up in opposition to the Man Booker; and one grand old man. Curious indeed, I thought, and then, as?my more reptilian brain kicked in, I?started playing the odds. Horse-trading? Who pushed for what? Why were names such as  whittled off the longlist?As a literary editor for many years, and a former judge, I have sometimes joked with friends that the year that I correctly predicted the Man Booker result was the year I?judged it. It is, delightfully, unpredictable. The longlist did seem like a mix-tape of greatest hits (thankfully nobody put on )   and yet the only two surprise tracks are on the shortlist.With a different set of judges each year, it is a fool s errand to try to guess the eventual winner. So I have always had?a simple formula: never judge the books   study the judges.In the infamous year of having a?former spook looking at literature, the prize nearly collapsed under the banalities, until a tried-and-tested victor was put in place (). This year s judges are a curious mixture. Having been in this game for so long, I?can say without hesitation that I?respect the opinions of  and , both of whom I?have chaired at literary festivals, and have long admired and , whose work I used to push on creative writing students. I?have not had the pleasure of meeting the chair, . But these are people I?take seriously, and their decisions should be?taken seriously.But seriously: The new book strikes me as bloated Borges. What he managed in  The Garden of Forking Paths  it takes Auster a book longer than  to play around in. It s a very macho book, not in content, but in form. After years of slender novels and?slim pickings we get the huge work,?and it is huge work to finish it.Another Booker koan: the front-runner never wins. I quite liked, but it had a musty air of nostalgic experimentation.  appears to be always the bridesmaid, and seems content with that   as she observed, Angela Carter never won the Booker. The debuts, and , which I read yesterday, are good; at points very good indeed. , like Auster, attempts alternative realities but has the upper hand in politics.If you want to win at the Man Booker   as a punter   then here s the strategy: find five friends and each of you place a bet on one of the books. One of you will win and you can divide the dividends sixfold. That s the only way to win.																																											