ho will be on the Man Booker shortlist? If you go by the bookies  odds, Colson Whitehead () is a cert to be selected, followed by Jon McGregor (), George Saunders () and Sebastian Barry (). After that there s less agreement, but Mike McCormack () and Kamila Shamsie () have the next shortest odds on average. This would be a shortlist with two Americans, two Brits and two Irish writers, with only one woman left in the field and half the books set in 19th-century America.Paul Auster, the oldest and arguably most illustrious author on the longlist, is rated a no-hoper set to?join the first-timers, Emily Fridlund and Fiona Mozley, in the judges  reject pile; while Arundhati Roy, the only previous winner in contention, and former shortlistee Mohsin Hamid are also relegated to the back of?the pack. Above them both Ali Smith and Zadie Smith are seen as just outside the elite group.But how reliable are these odds likely to be? At this point last year four of the authors who made the 2016 shortlist - the eventual winner Paul Beatty, Deborah Levy, David Szalay and Madeleine Thien - were in Ladbrokes  top six, which isn t bad   but the problem has always been picking a favourite: Ladbrokes  No 1 then, Ian McGuire, and JM Coetzee and AL Kennedy, co-favourites at William Hill (seemingly not offering odds this year, presumably because  Booker bookie  Graham Sharpe left the firm in April) , all failed even to be finalists.That could be ominous for 2/1 frontrunner Whitehead (unimpressively identified as  Colson White  on Ladbrokes  site at the time of writing), but an unusual aspect of the 2017 longlist potentially points to the odds, including his, being more reliable. This is the presence of a trio of novels (all 2016 titles) already festooned with awards - a National Book and Pulitzer double for , a Costa novel and book of the year double for , the Goldsmiths prize for . In contrast, Saunders and McGregor, respectively former Folio and Impac winners, appear to be high up for the more conventional reason of success with earlier books.Of recent Booker winners, Richard Flanagan was a 16/1 backmarker in 2014 and Marlon James was at 20/1 in 2015. In this year s markedly stellar longlist, big names are on offer at big prices (Bet365 has Roy at 19/1 and Auster at 23/1), not just relative unknowns; and fans will snap up the longest odds available for Shamsie (15/1) and the Smiths (both 12/1) before they shorten (if they get on it) after the shortlist is revealed. Barry s Ladbrokes odds went from 9/1 to 6/1 this week, but Bet365 s are still surprisingly generous: Britain and Ireland s reigning (Costa) book of the year, and it s only 10/1?																																											