horeographer  and director  have previously collaborated on works for outdoor spaces, but in Dead Club they move inside, to mastermind one of the most enjoyably baffling productions I ve seen in ages. A disorienting tangle of riddles around notions of death, memory and perception, the work messes with us from the moment we enter The Place, whose auditorium has been so radically reconfigured as to be almost unrecognisable. The area is dominated by a large raised stage, decorated with a riotous gestalt of patterns, and the audience are left to squeeze around the edges, squinting up at the performers who loom over us, like grotesques from a dream. These performers (four men, one woman) morph from precocious party children in shorts, ruffles and bright white socks, to churchy Victorians, to mild 21st-century hipsters. They sing to us, dance in wickedly tight disco formations; one man, naked but for a pair of rotting underpants, occasionally drifts across the stage like a displaced Christ. The hour-long show is part cabaret, part funeral ceremony, part end-of-the-world party. Staccato bangs and blinding flashes disrupt the action as the performers appear and disappear through trapdoors in the floor. Equally startling are the objects that drop without warning from the ceiling   dead crows, a severed arm. At one point the Christ figure cradles the body of a deer in his arms, as the creature appears to shiver through an exquisite death agony. There s a flavour of Poe here, mashed up with , Lewis Carroll and German expressionism. And with performances and design of such meticulous verve Dead Club is, at the very least, a captivatingly deviant spectacle. But the work also sends out teasing signals of meaning, which centre around a group of miniature model characters who pop up through the floor. These seem like toy representations of the recently deceased, whose memories, dreams and fantasies have been given a rampantly surreal afterlife in the party scene of the Dead Club. There s such a teeming mix of symbolism in the work, however, and such a riot of effects (including a beam of light that rakes over the audience, as if selecting individuals for membership of the club), that it s a mistake to over-interpret. The excess of confusion, the evocation of a magisterially random universe are themselves a pleasure and they stay in the mind, subversive and perplexing, for a long time afterwards.																																											