hose who have heard of Emma Reyes, and they are few, know her as a Colombian painter who lived in France for many years. She died in 2003, not famous but remembered as  mama grande  to Latin American artists and writers in France and as a marvellous storyteller. She had won a scholarship to study in Paris in 1947, but once there was advised not to copy western art but to look at the  primitives  in the Louvre, and to keep to her own artistic heritage, particularly the strong and wayward line of her drawing.Her earliest works, bright scenes of markets and crowds, sombre portraits and dense landscapes, were inspired by the continent she had just left. In the 1950s she travelled, via a job for Unesco in Washington DC, to stay at  s workshop in Mexico; she collaborated with him on a mural for the Olympic Stadium and illustrated books for the Latin American People s Library. Reyes went to Rome, where   the story has it   she worked as a taxi driver and ran someone over, before moving to Israel and finally returning to France. Her style developed, too, from the indigenist early approach to experiments in abstraction and geometric compositions, psychedelic florals,  masques  and monsters, but she always came back to figuration, and some of her most striking pieces are stark, haunted portraits. She always worked spontaneously.  My paintings are screams,  she said.  Monsters are released from my hand   I do not paint my pictures; I write them. Reyes s career was all the more remarkable given her childhood in Colombia was one of profound poverty, of personal and institutional cruelty and neglect. As a young girl, she lived in a single room in Bogot  with her sister Helena, a boy  whom we called Piojo  (in fact her half-brother, Eduardo) and a woman  with a tangle of black hair  called Mar a: their mother, though none of them knew it. Her days were spent on the rubbish dump with other children, or locked in the room. They slept in their clothes, which were the only ones they had.In France, Reyes told stories of her childhood and others pressed her to write them down. When she said she couldn t   she had been illiterate well into her teens   the historian Germ n Arciniegas suggested she record them as letters: the first of the 23 she wrote to him, which have been collected as , is dated 28 April 1969. She writes from Paris and tells  my dear Germ n  that  Today at noon General de Gaulle left the Elys e, his only luggage the eleven million nine hundred forty-three thousand two hundred thirty-three NO votes cast by the Frenchman who have repudiated him.  It is almost the only mention of the present day in the letters, which continued intermittently (there is a break of 20 years after a falling out) until 1997. They were published in Colombia in 2012 and became an overnight success; this new edition, translated by the novelist Daniel Alarc n, is the first in English.De Gaulle, Reyes says in her first letter, has reminded her of her oldest memory: a clay figure called General Rebello that she built with the other street children and decorated with rubbish. He was killed, ceremonially buried and pitifully mourned.  We all followed behind, crying like orphans   in circumstances like the ones in which we lived, one is born knowing what hunger, cold and death mean. The scenes, never more than a few pages long, portrayed in the letters attest to that. They are written from a child s position of ignorance. Reyes s mother, only ever referred to as Mrs Mar a, disappears and returns; Eduardo is sent to be brought up by nuns, or so Emma and Helena are told, but that doesn t make sense to them:  I didn t understand what  far from Bogot  meant . They are taken to live in Guateque, around 70 miles from Bogot , and suddenly there is some money; Mar a buys  a grey dress with many pleats and buttons and washers, black boots that also had many buttons, and a large grey hat with a kind of veil that cinched below her chin . Her early memories seem photographic   they are vivid and discrete, almost disconnected; charged with the child s imagination and sense of drama. A friend of Eduardo s father, she comes to realise, has arranged for Mar a s job in a chocolate shop. Is she having an affair with him? It s not clear; or not of interest: more striking to Reyes is the shock of seeing her first cow, of hearing music, of discovering a dead dog  who d fallen from the sky .While some of the letters announce themselves as such, opening with  My dear Germ n  and ending with  Kisses for all, Emma , others have no markers, and the story moves, haltingly, across them. The monotony of  very long, very sad days  locked in the house caring for her new baby brother or hiding from Mar a in the oven ( the only place she couldn t get me ) is interrupted by moments of intense recollection: a surprise basket of plums, the arrival of the first automobile in Guateque,  a horrific, black monster   its enormous, wide-open eyes were yellowish and so bright they lit up half the plaza. People fell to their knees and began to pray and make the sign of the cross. A festival bullfight ends in chaos when the bull escapes and rampages through the chocolate shop, and a firework sets the straw roof of the hospital on fire. Hundreds of people die, but in Reyes s mind the events seemed connected, as though they were all part of the celebrations. Fear and excitement are very close to each other, and equally incomprehensible. You must think it strange,  she writes to Arciniegas,  that I can tell you in such detail and with such precision what happened so long ago. I agree with you that a child of five who leads a normal life wouldn t be able to recount his childhood with this level of accuracy. But we, Helena and I, remember it as if it were today.  It s shocking, despite the child s voice of the narrative, to discover partway through that she is still only five or six; that at the abandonment of her second brother, she understands, aged four, that she is  already capable of feeling that I don t want to live . Not long afterwards, she and Helena are themselves abandoned at a convent, and begin a new life that, for the next 15 years, displaces the old one entirely.The change comes almost halfway through the letters, and it marks a change in her writing, too. Their situation is still bleak: the girls were little more than slaves, working 10-hour days in the convent kitchens or laundry, tormented with stories of divine injustice and bullied by other girls. But the detached voice of the infant Reyes becomes more involved in her own story as she describes the complicated structures and politics of the convent. As well as the cruelties, there are unexpected opportunities and moments of unlooked-for gentleness. She is courted by the one-eyed man who brings milk; when she accidentally discovers the communion wine and drinks until she passes out, a priest rescues her. The convent is famed for its fine needlework, and though bad at her catechism, Reyes becomes adept at embroidering sheets and tablecloths, silk underwear and sleeping gowns  with stitching down to the feet .In this fixed and limited existence storytelling had a unique power. The mythology of the church keeps the girls frozen between intense love for the baby Jesus and a hell known  so intimately we felt we could navigate it with our eyes closed . It is a world in which a vision of the devil is taken entirely seriously and superstition becomes law. A laywoman who lives among them is fed incessantly to keep the two black marks on her stomach (her  belt ) from meeting, lest she should die and some terrible evil befall the convent. A new girl convinces the others to give their food to her brother Tarrarrurra, a small porcelain figurine she keeps strapped to her thigh. They do so, entranced by the wonderful stories he reports back about his adventures outside the convent. But eventually stories are not enough, and Reyes   always more daring than her sister   steals the keys to the front door, and escapes into the world:  I realised it had been a long time since I was a girl.  It is here that her letters end, and her real story begins. is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson.To order a copy for ?12.74 (RRP ?14.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only.																																											