hree years ago, in broad daylight, after leaving his weekly /physiotherapy session, fell flat on his face. It was an accident that could have happened to anyone   a trip on an uneven pavement   and by seven that evening, with his head bandaged, he was home again and  showering off the bitter aftertaste of A&E . He d survived; he was still himself. But the episode left him feeling fragile, newly conscious now he had reached 60 of what awaits him: age, and then the only end of age.Death was not a stranger to McCrum. At 42, healthy, successful and two months married, he suffered a right hemisphere haemorrhagic infarct   AKA, a stroke, insult to the brain or cerebral mugging   that left him paralysed down one side and with his speech impaired. The memoir he published afterwards,  (1998), is a compelling account of his recovery and of his reluctant adjustment to a slower pace of life. Many stroke patients, doctors and nurses have found the book invaluable, both for its honesty and for its lightly worn neurological research. Drawing on the diaries that he and his wife Sarah Lyall kept at the time, it had the immediacy of frontline reportage, with the body as a battleground and the outcome, if not a total victory, certainly a triumph against the odds.Though occasional ideas and phrases from that book recur,  is very different in tone and texture. It is reflective rather than urgent, more a philosophical meander than a driven narrative. Rather than asking  What has become of me? , McCrum wants to know  What lies ahead?  For answers he looks to the literature he has read over half a century (his title comes from :  Every third thought shall be my grave ) and to friends and experts in the field, some still living (, , ), others not (, , ). Let us disarm Death of his novelty and strangeness,  Montaigne said. McCrum agrees: he s looking for an armistice of some kind, by staring death and old age in the face. The statistics make sobering reading. With a fall like his, one-third of over-65s suffer a fracture, and of those, 40% end up in a nursing home. If your body doesn t let you down, your mind will. The number of people in the UK with Alzheimer s is greater than the population of Liverpool. From 2000 to 2012, 99% of newly developed dementia drugs failed to pass their clinical trials.So far, so unconsoling. And the knowledge that people are living longer, and that more of us are alive today than have died throughout the whole of human history, isn t much solace, either: to anyone over 60   more accustomed to attending funerals than weddings   it doesn t feel that way. McCrum lists some of the deaths of well-known people that occurred during a 12-month period while he was working on this book: Lisa Jardine, , Alan Rickman, Terry Wogan, Anita Brookner, Ronnie Corbett, Zaha Hadid, Victoria Wood, Arnold Wesker, , Caroline Aherne, Geoffrey Hill. It s quite a roll call. To which he appends an A-Z of friends not waving but drowning.Is stoicism the best way to cope with the  miasma of melancholy  (Nora Ephron s phrase) that can shroud the declining years? William Hazlitt thought so: since there has already been, for each of us,  a time when we were not , and this  gives us no concern , why be afraid of death? Julian Barnes saw off such arguments in his book , as did Larkin in his poem  Aubade . McCrum is more patient with those who find reasons to be cheerful.  If you have religion,  Sally Vickers (a Christian) says,  it gives the drama of death a place in the theatre of things.  As to ageing, Adam Phillips argues that  Every stage of the life cycle is interesting , and there are  more possibilities when we are 70 .Denial is another coping mechanism (William Empson considered death a topic  people should be prepared to be blank upon ). It doesn t let you off the grave but may ease your passing. When McCrum visits a friend who is dying from leukaemia, he s troubled by his deluded talk of recovery. But he accepts that it would be cruel to disenchant him. I had a similar experience with my father. Having been told the worst (inoperable cancer, just weeks to live), and having made sure I knew it too, he chose not to discuss it again. The dying have a right to their decease,  McCrum says, though in the UK the law is stacked against them. What terrifies most of us is the prospect of dependency. We had it before, as infants, but have no memory of that; this time we ll be conscious of it, with the knowledge that our dependency will only get worse. Interventions that prolong life can also impair it; as the neurosurgeon and author Marsh says, death is often a preferable outcome. McCrum himself hopes for a quick death, in his sleep; better that than a decade of incontinence in institutional care. Yes, the will to live persists, even in those with no quality of life. But if their brains were fully functional, would they choose to go on?Death is the  fairest thing in this world , the Nobel prize-winning author Svetlana Alexievich has said, because  no one has ever managed to buy himself out of it . It s also the cruellest, when it takes lives that have barely begun. The cautious go under as well as the wild:  We study health, and we deliberate upon our meats and drink,  John Donne wrote,  But in a minute a Canon batters all, overthrows all, demolishes all; a Sickness unprevented for all our diligence   destroys us in an instant.  As an assemblage of great quotes and prompt for further reading,  rivals DJ Enright s anthology . McCrum adds striking metaphors of his own, likening death to  an indifferent electrician switching off lights in the deserted stadium of the human soul .Impatient readers will want to shake him: come on, mate, you re not even a pensioner yet; the deceleration you re experiencing is no big deal. But for the most part McCrum counts himself lucky: he may use a cane but at least he looks youthful and still has his hair. The closing chapter distils the wisdom he has learned: keep fit, accept your fate and live in the now. It also offers an  improbably romantic  happy ending when, depressed and solitary after the breakup of his marriage, he meets a woman he d briefly talked to under a crab-apple tree a decade earlier and falls in love.To find love again in your seventh decade won t stop you getting older or, eventually, pegging out. And it doesn t happen to everyone. But after the struggles he has been through, it is perhaps the least this author deserves. And at the end of a journey through hospital wards, hospices and darkened rooms, it s a shaft of sunlight for the reader, too.  is published by Picador. To order a copy for ?12.74 (RRP ?14.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											