hristopher Shinn s , receiving its premiere at the Almeida, is an admirably ambitious attempt to look at the reasons for violence in the modern world. Ian Rickson directs this intense, far-flung, multitasking play with seamless elegance. Luke, a Silicon Valley billionaire, who has made his money in artificial intelligence and rocket science, believes he has had a message from God to go forth and investigate violence. Ben Whishaw is outstanding in a contradictory role   messianic, tentative and self-involved. He travels the US, interviews the parents of the boy responsible for a high school shooting, discusses sexual violence on a university campus, becomes a celebrity. He visits  Equator    presumably a version of Amazon and presented in Ultz s satisfying design with a curved sliver of carrot as logo   creepily familiar.A first-rate cast ensures momentum. Amanda Hale is excellent as Sheila, Luke s associate and wannabe lover. She and Luke confer earnestly like patients listing symptoms. Kevin Harvey is brilliant in multiple roles, but especially as Equator s CEO, moving sinuously between oily charm and stony hostility. Nancy Crane is priceless as a university dean, Fehinti Balogun powerful as Tim (former friend to the high school assassin). Emma D Arcy s nuanced performance as Anna, one of Luke s vulnerable disciples, makes it hard to believe she is a new name in theatre.Luke asks more questions than any journalist, but leaves us short on answers. It would have been good to see the relationship between impersonal consumerism and violence explored more fully. The relationship between Equator workers, nicely played by Adelle Leonce and Elliot Barnes-Worrell, is too sketchy to convince   they serve an argument more than each other.  is hard-working but over-reaching   it doesn t quite deliver on its intellectual promise. And some of its pronouncements are slipshod:  When we forget about violence,  Luke maintains,  that itself is a type of violence.  It sounds eloquent but is it true?																																											