hy are there so many bad remakes of good movies? It s a fair enough question. When dealing with a text that has already proven itself functional, it takes an active effort to make it worse. The path of least resistance would lead somewhere agreeable if not extraordinary, perhaps not matching the given source s greatness but at least managing a respectable measure of success.Merely by achieving and then exceeding base competence, Michael Noer s handsome new rendition of  (itself an adaptation of one unusually determined French prisoner s 1969 memoir) puts the innumerable lifeless resuscitations of memorable properties currently clogging multiplexes on notice. Noer makes not bungling excellent material look like a relatively simple task: hire some good actors, make it look appealing, stick to what worked with the original, and you should be good to go, right? While his final product may be an imitation of the Dalton Trumbo-scripted genuine article, it s not an especially pale one. Noer s turned out a fine film in its own right, and political developments in the decades since the last adaptation have even lent the script a newfound significance. The story may not have changed, but the world into which it s getting released sure has.Multilingual readers have likely already identified the film s title as the French word for  butterfly , a symbol of freedom and hope to the Parisian jailbird who also claims the word as his nickname. Papi (Charlie Hunnam, all skin and muscle and bared teeth), as he s known to his buddies, comes into the film hot off a big safe-cracking score, and one wrong move later, he s framed for murder and shipped off to a remote penal colony in French Guiana. He doesn t intend on sticking around for too long, however, and promptly allies himself with odd bird Louis Dega (a vaguely narcotized Rami Malek). An accomplished forger, the wealthy Dega has smuggled a wad of bills into the prison through what we ll call intimate means, and Papi offers his protection for enough cash to bribe his way through a daring escape. The game is set.What follows is a solidly acted and attractively shot prison-break narrative, freighted with all the tragedy and triumph that the mini-genre can muster. Papi is stubborn, a virtue that energizes him on his long and weary path to salvation. The sadistic warden of the prison facility takes it upon himself to break Papi, and while his upper lip definitely un-stiffens after a few horrifying years spent in solitary confinement, he defiantly refuses to be cowed. He s locked in a brutalizing game where freedom is constantly yanked away from him every time he begins to catch his breath. It s frustrating, which is a good thing in this instance   the torturous closeness of liberation makes the audience share in Papi s plight.Buoying his spirits is his flowering friendship with Dega, an eccentric thoroughly unfit for the exacting conditions of their environment. Their bond forms slowly, vulcanized by mutual self-sacrifice in high stakes moments. While Hunnam sure ain t Steve McQueen, and Malek really, really ain t Dustin Hoffman, the pair take care not to overplay their sentimental hand, allowing a camaraderie to take shape while both men keep one another at a distinctly macho distance. To a modern crowd, the film doubles as a . The warden only gets away with the cruelest and most unusual abuses of fundamental dignity through a total lack of oversight due to their remote location. The slave labor that prisoners are forced to perform, the routine humiliations, and the recreational violence feel a bit more pointed in our era of heightened consciousness about the insidious prison-industrial complex. Any criticisms are far from searing, but it s an engaging side concern nonetheless.The film s merits (which, sadly, do not include originality) are self-evident. Hunnam and Malek both hold up their end of the deal. Noer, for his part, meets them halfway by conjuring golden-hued beauty for the jungle surroundings and a due griminess for the danker chambers of their holding compound. He doesn t overcomplicate things for himself, keeping the clunky dialogue to a minimum and focusing on the guiding light of Papi s indomitable willpower. 																																											