I wake early but don t work. I like having the world to myself for a?while. I make coffee   with an AeroPress: lots of stirring and shoving   and read until the rest of the house wakes up.I was a secondary school teacher when I wrote my first four novels, so I didn t see any reason to change the rhythm of the working day when I stopped teaching, in 1993. I?started at 9am, or after I d brought the kids to school; I worked Monday to Friday; I stopped at 6pm. These days there are no kids to bring to school but I still work Monday to Friday, 9 to 6. Although I ve started mitching. Mitching  means  playing truant  and it only works if you get into trouble if you re caught. There s no one out to catch me when I slither out the door to go to the pictures, but it still feels like mitching, something I shouldn t be doing but that s doing me good.My office is in the attic. I bring a mug of green tea up with me. It used to be coffee but the coffee I drink in the early morning is so strong it s possibly illegal, so green tea it is   good for the cholesterol, bad for the self-respect. When I was a teacher I used to meet hundreds of people every day. A bell would go every 40 minutes; the day was full of human noise. Then, after June 1993, I was alone. I was happy enough but the working day yawned; the silence wasn t eerie but I didn t like?it. A friend suggested music. That seems odd now, that someone had to persuade the man who wrote  that he might enjoy listening to music while he worked.But, anyway, it worked. I have a record player in the office   deck, amp, CD player, a stack of the things. It takes up space   it s like having a Harley-Davidson in the attic. It s the first thing I see as I climb the last few steps, and my working day starts when I start flicking through the records, going:  Ah yeah, ah yeah, ah yeah, when did I buy that shite, ah yeah, ah yeah. I listen to   or play   music all day as I work, unless I m editing. Sometimes, I know things have been going well when I realise that the music has stopped and I hadn t noticed. The music I?choose in the late afternoon   the last two hours or so   is vital. Philip Glass s got me to the end of my novel, ; I played it every afternoon for a year. My new book, , was pushed along with help from the Australian band the Necks, and their album . I ve started another novel but haven t found its music yet.I rarely play rock music. It s too distracting, too many stops and starts, howls and lyrics. , Boards of Canada, Colin Stetson, Sarah Neufeld, Laura Cannell, , Fennesz, , Max Richter, , Ryuichi Sakamoto, Christian Blackshaw, Tim Hecker, Caoimh n ? Raghallaigh   these are some of the people who ve been filling the day for me.Oh   and I write. First, I go over what I wrote the day before, and add to it. I?don t delete until I ve finished a first draft. I could be writing for months before I know what I m doing. I was well into the second year of  before I knew why I was writing it. This   not really knowing what I m doing   has never worried me, until I m finished. The planning has always been in the writing. I need to accumulate the words before I can start rejecting them. A novel is the work of years, so I need the daily comfort of numbers: 1,000 words is a good day. Those words might end up in the bin but it doesn t matter.Lunch is food. I don t care what I?eat. I might sit for a few minutes and listen to the news. I often stand. I often stand in the front of the open fridge door. I rarely meet anyone. I want to get back to work. My head is full of words by then and I m afraid I ll lose them. I make a cup of coffee and bring it back up with me.I divide the day into different jobs. The novel in the morning and late afternoon; a play, say, or a script or my weekly column for the Irish Independent in the early afternoon. I live near the sea and in the late autumn and winter the geese fly over the house, in Battle of Britain formation, at about 4pm every day. I look up at them through the window. They re my alarm clock   time to get back to the novel. eight or nine  1,000 to 1,500  emails   30 minutes, internet: BBC football page, Irish Times, Pitchfork, Waterford Whispers   30 minutes gym, two or three times a week   two hours  not telling Roddy Doyle s .																																											