I m in Reno, Nevada. I played here last night. It was fun. Nice people.Well,  would probably think so.In concentrated working time, my new one  probably took a year and a half. The real challenge is committing to the time. Writing is something I ve never particularly liked doing, but I m better than I used to be.Yeah! A  Last Chance to See  kind of tour. But no, I don t see that happening. I ve wondered all my working life why people don t retire in showbusiness, and it s fairly simple. There s nobody applauding at home, so we keep going.Well, I have real respect for the intelligence of the audience. Ambiguity interests me because things aren t black and white. I ve always hated people who were sure they were right, on either side. I?have to take sides, though. In a song like , I want people to notice that the guy is an asshole.I was inspired by an old gospel song called Stalin Wasn t Stallin , and by the odd shirt-off stuff that works in his country. He s not only the richest man in the world and the most powerful, but he wants to be Tom Cruise at the same time.He is, more so than ever because he may well be one of the most powerful people in  country.It was just too vulgar. There s no point in adding to the general vulgarity. He s almost too much; too easy a target. But I wish I d kept my mouth shut about having written the song if I was going to bury it.I didn t know it was there to that extent. A lot of the people who voted for him are angry at the 21st century, I think. They don t want to see naked people on their television, the music coming out of cars real loud. He captured that kind of cultural rebellion   people who want to go back in time, imagining wrongly that it was better.Yeah, he probably would. The south voted for him. In some ways the civil war never really ended. There s often a resentment that they re being told what to do and they just can t stand that.Yes. You have to have a really,  good reason   and it may not be a good enough reason   to use that word. I ve played it, but it has a whole boring preamble that I am required, and want, to give. You have to justify somehow the fact that that word is in there.No. I d be too self-conscious. I did a skit on a TV show one time and I was terrible.Yeah, but I turned them down. Some of them were fairly big films, actually. I don t know if they ve gotten  far but certainly the first time they heard me was You ve Got a Friend in Me. I would never not play it now. It s too big a deal to some people.For me, it s about the girl and the toy, but of course I have to find my way to it. Inevitably some of my own experience seeps in there.Yeah, I did. I had been through it in a train and I saw this story about it in National Geographic. I didn t feel good about that.  I think people in Baltimore who objected to that song  had a real good case because I didn t know anything about it.Etta James s version of God s Song. The fact that she did that was a hell of a thing. It s not easy doing the song, period, but it s . You can imagine it for her.Y know, I can t think of anyone funnier than my uncle Lionel.  Fred Astaire said he was the funniest man he ever met.There are no wrong places. But, yes, they do.Oh, man, that s a little long to wait now.  I hope not. I always hope not. , Newman s 11th studio album, includes songs about Vladimir Putin, the Bay of Pigs, embryonic stem cell research and love. The song Putin begins:  Putin puttin  his pants on / One leg at a time.  Newman has said he wrote a song about Trump s penis. The chorus was:  What a dick!  His chewy 1974 anti-racist satire narrated by a resentful southerner. Out of respect for the people who took the roles, he won t name the movies. You ll have to guess. AKA Jessie s Song, the greatest breakup song for kids ever written.  The city s dyin  and they don t know why.  Quite harsh. Lionel Newman was a composer who won an Oscar for Hello, Dolly! Randy s got two, but Lionel s older brother, the film composer Alfred, won the Newman family Oscar race with nine. Nine!																																											