I ve been going to carnival for about 30 years. My dad used to take me down, since before I was five. August bank holiday   you go to carnival. My family is from Antigua so carnival is such an important part of Caribbean expression and cultural heritage, a celebration of emancipation across the islands. For my dad, it was really important that I connected with that culture   the food, colours, the smell. In the 80s there was loads of tension, there were serious riots, but for carnival people would come together. But it has got an edge, it s not fluffy, there s a strong community message that comes out of it. You almost like you feel like it s your duty to go. When I got into my teens and started going on my own around  98, that s when garage was popping. I definitely wasn t into dancehall, bashment or soca, that was dad and uncle music. So I d go to  and all the drum n bass sound systems, huge speakers blaring out. I ve put on parties in warehouses, beaches, amazing locations, but there s a realness about a massive stack on Westbourne Park.I wasn t allowed to go to carnival as a child, and I always seemed to miss it during my teens and mid-20s. But for the past five years, I ve made up for lost time. Growing up in a Caribbean culture (with a Jamaican father and Guyanese mother), I m used to big cook-outs with reggae music blaring. My tip for carnival first-timers would be to get fully stuck in; try the jerk chicken (with ketchup) and the hard-dough bread; move to the beat of the drums on the floats; let loose   smile! Don t let the negative headlines fool you: any pre-conceived notion about carnival gets shattered upon arrival. Rampage on Colville Square is probably the sound system you want to be at; the  goes off as well. And do what I do: walk up and down and take in the united vibes of London. I live in London now but I m from Birmingham originally and from the age of 14 I used to get the train down just to go to carnival. Since then I ve been every year except one, but do I handle myself there better now than when I was a teenager? No! It just gets messier and messier and I never learn. But it s carnival, everyone lets loose. When it comes to planning your day   try to travel light, with a bum bag for your valuables, as pickpocketing is a problem. I like to go with just one or two people   you don t want to be losing people/waiting around and you ll bump into your mates anyway. If it s gonna rain, bring a rain coat! That said, I think my favourite carnival memory is of 2015 when it absolutely tipped it down. I don t think I ve ever been so wet in my life   but I stayed out and everyone was having an amazing time. Well I was... Carnival used to be something I looked down on, literally, while sitting on my dad s shoulders as a kid. We d go on Sunday, the  family day , but this year I m taking advantage of the whole bank holiday weekend. On Friday night,  is back for a carnival special with a line up of women DJs of colour. Then Saturday is for prep: buy water, buy wet wipes, find shoes you can walk and dance in, and plan your outfit. This year, I m wearing  in solidarity with the residents of Grenfell Tower. My Sunday night motive is , with DJs from across Europe and  Sade and Neela. And remember: carnival is not a group activity. Avoid disappointment by going with a friend whose vibe matches your own. I have been going to carnival for almost five years   it s a chance for me to go out with all my friends locally and party, like an annual celebration. One of my best moments has to be when I hosted the RinseFM stage a couple of years ago. I was literally a garage MC shouting over the crowd. Last year we arrived early for the parade, while the paraders were still painting each other   and I was wearing all white. I love all the carnival costumes, but also the dancing. Rampage is one of my favourite systems, but KCC and the Rocking Crew on Wornington Road are amazing   they play US House old and newAs for preparing: I always bring a rucksack, bottle of water, face wipes   and a whistle. And never wear uncomfortable shoes or high heels - you might look amazing but you ll be struggling by the end of it. As a born and bred south Londoner who hates crossing the river, I only go to Notting Hill once a year   for carnival. . This year, the plan is to go on an early morning walk to the Grenfell site to pay my respects on Sunday, and then head to the Red Bull Music Academy sound system to see rapper Stefflon Don and dancehall queen Spice. Grenfell will (rightly) loom over carnival this year, especially as the survivors and victims  families are nowhere near getting any closure, and I m hopeful they ll be in everyone s thoughts all weekend. I think it ll feel celebratory   carnival has always been a symbol of working-class and black communities refusing to back down, and surviving against the odds. London s been through a lot this year, and a celebration of the city s diversity is exactly what we need. I ve never had a plan for carnival, really. I like to weave between the festivities on the lesser known stages and side streets. You come across some real gems at the smaller sound systems. The best thing about carnival is how eclectic it is musically. I hang around the more dancehall-oriented sound systems, the rap ones and everything in between. Family day on Sunday is always really special because of the number of processions that go by   boys and girls, men and women all bejewelled and dancing in sequences. I somehow managed to get on the Toddla T stage in 2014. Ms Dynamite was performing and, through some act of God, I was dancing next to her. That was probably the best minute and a half of my life up to that point. It was raining but the energy was electric   and when she started her UK garage classic Boo!, I nearly fell off the stage I was so excited. Older and younger people were moving and shaking like their lives depended on it, and you really got the true essence of carnival. I didn t get to say hi to Ms Dynamite unfortunately   security did away with me before I could muster up the courage. For me carnival is always on the Monday. It clashes with my favourite festival in the world   Shambala   so usually I go on Monday afternoon post-festival. Minimal clothing is never a bad idea either   it s carnival after all! I m a huge fan of a colourful two-piece. My favourite spot last year was Different Strokes sound system on St Luke s Road, playing hip hop, jungle and drum n bass. I like to pick a base and stay there. Gone are the days of walking around all day...I think I m getting old!																																											