ichard Hoggart s cultural analysis The Uses of Literacy was published in 1957 but its influence still hovers over anyone setting out to write seriously about people s affection for things that aren t serious, such as the products of pop culture. In(), DJ Taylor hears from David Kynaston, , David Lodge and Lynsey Hanley about the book s legacy.Many pop songs seem to be more potent now than in their heyday.  wrote Waterloo Sunset in 1967, but I would bet any money he will finish his headlining slot at  ()with it. The public would not have it any other way.Sometimes even unconsidered asides find their way into history. Mandy Rice-Davies made one at the trial of Stephen Ward in 1963, when the defence argued that Lord Astor denied having ever met her. Her innocent remark became such a byword for British hypocrisy that it is the inevitable title of an excellent drama about her life      which gets a deserved repeat ()The great Andy Partridge makes a rare journey out of Swindon to guest on  () alongside Mark Fisher, editor of XTC fanzine Limelight. Elsewhere, Jo Brand is Victoria Coren Mitchell s guest as a second series of  begins (). As well as exploring the cars that Brand has owned and others that have featured in her life, this opener contains the surprising information that the host s husband, David Mitchell, has not yet passed his driving test despite once having attended a residential course.The  podcast can be intimidating. Not just because it s the work of a lawyer called Jordan Harbinger. Not simply because Jordan has worked out how to weaponise all the many elements of the human personality that go to make up charisma in order to get people to listen to him, be impressed by him or hire him. But mainly because he also has the energy to turn these thoughts into podcasts of frightening intensity. I can t listen to more than half of the long episodes without having a lie down. His  minisodes  are easier to take. A lot of it is just common sense   today you should text two people you haven t texted in a while   but by turning everyday niceness into a matter of iron policy he has become a regular Dale Carnegie of the digital dispensation.is the podcast wing of The Conversation, the site that presents news and views derived from the academic and research community. Recent episodes have covered how music works on the mind, what happens when scientists experiment on themselves, and why children find faecal matter such a rich source of humour. It s refreshingly modest, particularly following The Art of Charm.																																											