ideo games have always been funny. From the lumbering kidnap animation in Donkey Kong to the witty wordplay of the Uncharted series, developers have used every tool at their disposal to make us giggle while we shoot, jump, explore and accelerate. Sometimes the humour comes from the script, sometimes the mechanics, and sometimes it s just the emergent joy of competing against friends. Whichever, we all remember games that have had us doubled over our controllers, helpless with laughter.Here then, are the funniest games  ever played. Please share your own rib-tickling reminiscences in the comments. it s one of those rare video games that s actually designed as a piece of humour. From the very beginning, when you step out of a person-shaped suitcase into its cartoon cyberpunk world, the gags are fast, furious and sophisticated.  it s a black-and-white wild west adventure entirely populated by stick figures and sight gags. Much of the comedy comes from the way the script and mechanics work together with a delightful sense of wordplay, so that the ghost town is actually made out of ghosts and the needles you pick locks with are all hidden in haystacks.  it s a two-player espionage challenge that perfectly captures the look and slapstick humour of the Mad magazine cartoon strip it s inspired by. A lot of the laughs come from setting traps for your opponent and then accidentally tripping them yourself, prompting a range of lovely Loony Tunes-style death animations. Iit s the heartwarming tale of a paper-thin canine rapper who is taught the meaning of life by a karate-chopping onion. Enough said. it s a refreshingly original and light-hearted role-playing adventure where the overarching war between humans and monsters is undercut both by the winsome characters (such as pun-loving skeleton Sans and blushing crush-prone scientist Alphys) and the fact that enemies can be vanquished with a nice hug.  it s co-written by Douglas Adams, closely follows the plot of the book and radio series, and contains one of the most devilish challenges in the history of text adventures: the babel fish puzzle. It also starts with the best two inventory items in history: a splitting headache and no tea.  it s a multiplayer cooperative cooking game where the kitchens are highly impractical   and often moving   and you ve always got one hopeless friend who keeps setting things on fire. it s a game about having to repair the universe after your father   the King of All Cosmos   has destroyed it in a drinking spree. You do this by rolling objects into giant balls to make new stars. We can just leave it there really.  it s a turn-based military strategy game in which the military strategy involves holy hand grenades, banana bombs, weaponised grandmothers and exploding sheep. it s a frenzied series of microgame collections that trade in surprise and utter weirdness. Whether you re running away from a dinosaur or picking a giant nose, the humour comes in watching the cartoon scenarios then frantically figuring out what the hell you re supposed to do. you play as an octopus going undercover as a human dad. It s also the perfect example of humour through mechanics, as the requirement to control each of the character s limbs separately inevitably leaves him flailing around the screen, rendering even the simplest human task hilariously difficult.it looks like a serious assassination sim, but through its wonderfully open and pliable systems, it often makes you feel more like Mr Bean than James Bond. If you ve ever tried to stealthily kill a foreign agent only to accidentally squash a number of his party guests under falling spotlight, you ll know what we mean.  the combination of an open-world environment, a wonky physics engine and some gigantic bugs turned this okay skating game into the world s greatest accident simulator. Just type  Skate 3 compilation  into YouTube and watch the eye-watering chaos unfold. I it s a platform adventure written by Monkey Island scribe Tim Schaffer and set in a series of bizarre dreamworlds including a paranoid milkman s conspiracy laden suburb, a frenetic dance party and a metropolis inhabited by lungfish.  it s as puerile and gleefully offensive as you d expect, thanks to the close collaboration with Matt Stone and Trey Parker. There are anal probes, there are parental genital assaults and there are weapon customisation items called strap-ons.  you re a goat, clip-clopping around a glitchy urban environment ruining barbecues, destroying museums and licking passing trucks. It s also funny because Swedish developer Coffee Stain Studios made it as a joke and never actually meant to release it, but it did and now more than 2.5 million people have played. it s about a foul-mouthed binge-drinking squirrel whose attempts to get home to his girlfriend are continually thwarted by an embittered Prussian weasel. Released after a series of beautiful family platformers, Rare s mature-rated masterpiece remains one of the most subversive acts in console game history.  it s a brilliant Grand Theft Auto pastiche in which super-cop Chase McCain hunts crime boss Rex Fury through a cavalcade of deconstructed action movie cliches, daft characters and whip-smart one-liners   all of which gleefully whiz over the heads of its younger fans. it s a complete deconstruction of video game narrative conventions, allowing the player   as downtrodden office worker Stanley   to disobey and contradict the ongoing voice over exposition. It s like an interactive Franz Kafka novel, only a lot more enjoyable.  on the surface it appears to be a game about hitting people with a giant purple dildo, but in fact, when you delve deeper, you realise it is a game about becoming president of the United States, committing insurance fraud, repelling an alien invasion,  hitting people with a giant purple dildo.I its a British-made role-playing adventure and that means it has more fart gags, condoms and double entendres than it does monsters. The Fable series wonderfully challenged the po-faced pomposity of most fantasy games   and the sad thing is, we ll never see another. it s about incompetent organ removal, using a deliberately inaccurate physics model to render the player laughably ineffectual. Forget Drunk History, this is Drunk Surgery. every instalment takes place in a horrendous moral vacuum where thudding violence and high-speed vehicular mayhem are only ever a button press away. Even if you hate the sledgehammer satire of the scripts, you ll stay for the anarchy that comes whenever open-world environments, innocent pedestrians, zealous cops and freely available firearms collide.  it s a sci-fi shooter about rogue mercenaries guilty of massive war crimes but it s also a bawdy comedy that mercilessly mocks macho gaming conventions. Scripted by Marvel writer Rick Remender, most of the best lines are unquotable in a family publication, though we can at least rejoice in the fact that it features a giant robot dinosaur called Waggleton P Tallylicker. developer Will Wright intended his interactive reality TV show to be an exploration of urban life and relationships   but what did we do? We drowned our sims in swimming pools, forced them to pee on the kitchen floor and locked them in the cellar so that they could endlessly produce paintings for our profit. The Sims taught us that in video games, the real monsters are on  side of the screen. one of the greatest characters in the history of video games is a murderous computer that sadistically toys with the player at every opportunity. That character is of course Glados, a vengeful AI who sets all the physics tasks in this first-person puzzler, while calling you a monster, lying about cake and singing about science. The sequel adds a brilliant comic performance by Stephen Merchant as ineffectual robot assistant Wheatley, but it s Glados who steals the show once again   even when extracted into a potato battery. it s a loving tribute to swashbuckling Errol Flynn movies which brilliantly ridicules and subverts the conventions of its genre. Throughout the 1990s, LucasArts created a series of point-and-click adventures that would become legendary for their sharp sardonic humour   Day of the Tentacle, Full Throttle, Sam and Max Hit the Road   but Monkey Island is the pinnacle, best known for the brilliant insult sword-fighting sequence, its eccentric characters and its gorgeous one-liners. No other developer and no other game could have made taken a line like  that s the second biggest monkey head I ve ever seen  and turned it into a moment of unforgettable comic genius. A triumph.																																											