If you came of age in the 1990s and 2000s, there are plenty of questionable tunes from the era to reminisce about, from the easy prey of Boyz II Men s smouldering soul to Hoobastank s whine anthems. Even if you don t fit into that age bracket, there s a whole lot of joy in  (iTunes), a podcast  about the music you liked before you knew any better . Each episode ribs one cringeing song and its video in witty detail, thanks to host Alexander Edward and guests. Although the songs are broken down (or in some cases left in pieces on the studio floor), it s done in a loving way so some episodes serve as a reminder of how surprisingly good they are.Irresistible teen pop nugget Backstreet Boys  Everybody (Backstreet s Back) sparks a debate about Emma Maatman s love of boybands in her formative years. She discusses the politics of staying loyal, and why it wasn t acceptable to admit to liking both Backstreet Boys and *N Sync   and that s before she even considered the tricky matter of picking her favourite band member. Etiquette decreed that no two girls could share, so it was a race to claim the best one.Of course, there are some anthems that are indefensible: cue Chumbawumba s Tubthumping.  This is a song you d slowly jazzercise to at a Christian physical therapy programme,  offers Edward. Toto s Africa comes out only slightly better, with a debate about whether it s  just a lame song from the 80s ,  emotional stepdad rock  or both. That Awful Sound manages to stay on the right side of sneering, even when it unleashes hell on its musical victims. It s not about snobbery, so Metallica get the same treatment as the Spice Girls. Nearly two hours is devoted to Aqua s Barbie Girl, with a broad discussion about whether or not Ken has nipples, the phrase  hanky panky  and what was going on in the film Coyote Ugly. And the surprise bonus of listening to That Awful Sound? You may well rediscover a song you d forgotten about, but secretly still like.My new hero, 94-year-old , preaches nothing but humanity and common decency in his passionate podcast. Every episode, he invites you to  have a conversation over a pint  with him, passing on a lifetime of social awareness, as one of the last of a generation who lived through the very real effects of everything from fascism to austerity (the first time round) and the creation of the welfare state. It s told not with fist-banging rhetoric but through painfully real stories from his life, such as the death of his sister as a child from TB. As stark as some of the stories are (I sobbed on the Tube over episode three), there is hope and warmth in every word spoken. The longest episode clocks in at 15 minutes, so this is far from your grandad banging on about the old days. Harry has a burning desire to communicate, and that deserves a wee bit of your time and all of your respect. Cheers Harry. If you always wanted to hear an honest  girl talk , Michel, Sharonda and Danielle host the podcast for you. The trio talk about music, BDSM protocol, herpes and so much more, all with a glass of wine in hand. You will get hooked in equal parts by their intelligence, passion, irreverence, humour and emotion. Here s a toast to this real, raw, uncorked show that has become a highlight of my week. Meticulously-researched curiosities plucked from the world of literature and presented in bite-size episodes. Presenter Conor Reid curates an eclectic lineup of everything from ghost stories with a scientific twist to fake news during the first world war, all linked to but not shackled by the world of literature. Delightful stuff. Exactly a year ago, we published a wonderful triptych of audio documentaries on our strand The Story. Titled Camera Off, they are deeply personal works by the playwright and documentary film-maker Rebecca Lloyd-Evans. The first episode, , tells one of the most incredible love stories I ve ever heard   between Chris, a retired art gallerist and David, a young American. David has paranoid schizophrenia, and survived on the streets of New York for 10 years by believing he was part of a special intelligence force working to stop George Bush s evil plot to take over the world, until one day he heard the voice of the Queen. It is the Queen s voice that eventually brings Chris and David together in Westminster Abbey. The other stories document Rebecca s grandmother coming to terms with her German-Jewish identity, and how one bright and privileged young man lets his passion for music damage his life. Please do dive in to some of the best work we ve done on Guardian podcasts. 																																											