ig Brother house, this is . You are live on?Channel 5, please do not swear. Actually, shit it   swear all you like. Nobody s watching and nobody cares.Not to be confused with its celebrity spin-off, where this year we had Paul Danan and Barry from EastEnders to distract us from the moribund format, BB is 17 years old. Its 18th series aired earlier this year, with an all-time low of 650,000 viewers tuning in for one episode, as  dominated the ratings. Once a national obsession watched by six million people, hardly anybody talks about  civilian  Big Brother any more. So, where did it all go fake boobs-up for the genre-defining franchise?In short, it s all Brian Belo s fault. The perma-excited Basildon doofus entered the house a decade ago, aged 20. He had never heard of , believed in cosmic ordering, confidently declared that  the moon is bigger than the universe  and wet the bed after a cider binge. Crucially, he was also a self-confessed Big Brother superfan who had never missed an episode. His arrival was the moment when BB became both self-aware and unapologetically?stupid.Brian ended up winning, defeating twins Amanda and Sam Marchant (AKA  Samanda , a sort of Poundstretcher ) to become the show s youngest champion. The die was cast. Big Brother wasn t for Pete Bennett-style oddballs, Jon Tickle/Eugene Sully-esque geeks or older eccentrics such as gay, black, pro-hunting Tory toff Derek Laud any more. Now it offered a one-way ticket to Banterville. Club 18-30: Elstree Edition.With its baying crowds, shit-stirring tasks and shock tactics, BB abandoned any pretence of being a  social experiment , as it was originally sold. It used to be about relationships, rivalries, slow-burning romance and unlikely friendships. Cult heroes emerged. Accidental comedy ensued. But, post-Brian, the producers began rounding up gaggles of fame-seeking gits, then prodding them for our listless entertainment. Six years ago, it moved to Channel 5. Much-loved presenter  sensed which way the whiffy wind was blowing and bailed, to be replaced by meh rentahost . Ratings halved when it moved up a channel and have been sliding?ever since.This year s housemates took much flak for having already appeared on other, even lower-rent reality shows such as Ex on the Beach, Tenerife Uncovered and Ibiza Weekender. One was a member of hen night stripper troupe the Dreamboys. Another was a private detective who had been on  and Loose Women. Effectively, the only goons prepared to spend all summer in Borehamwood nowadays are preening Towie types   the sort of thundering thickos and Instagram irritants that you d cross Brentwood High Street to avoid. This year s winner was Isabelle Warburton. Tenner to anyone who could pick her out of a lineup.BB s golden days   Nasty Nick, Brian n Bubble, tragic , Fight Night, Aisleyne v Nikki, Kinga v that wine bottle   belong to a more innocent, pre-social media age. Housemates used to hog tabloid headlines and the cover of Heat magazine. Now they get a pushy agent and apply for another reality show. Who goes? You decide. Oh   everybody s already left.																																											