ig critical guns were wheeled out to review the latest and possibly last George Smiley novel, John le Carr s . The Observer s  called Le Carr   a?grand old man of English letters conducting a masterclass in the genre he has made his own ... he remains a great contemporary writer, whose work will always be read and reread , and the Evening Standard s  confirmed that  he has pulled it off   Le Carr  has not lost his touch   such a gift . Sexton thought that  to make any sense of the tangle of deceptions here you need at least to know, if not the whole oeuvre,   and, called it a  complex and beautifully elaborate narrative  for people  who have read and absorbed    . :  Start here as a novice ... and the exquisite bewilderment of navigating map-less through quicksands will drop you fast into Le Carr -land.  Tonkin described it as a  sombre, meditative novel with an uncoded blast at Brexit Britain  and reinforced the message that  Le Carr  has made and peopled a myth. Myths do not age. Another literary giant looking back over a lifetime was the acclaimed biographer Claire Tomalin, who has finally written her own memoir,    a life with more than its fair share of bereavements and challenges, but lots of gossip, too. Critics found it fascinating, but just a?little withheld.   Absorbing, moving and marvellously written  clear, level, unheated ...  began  in the Observer.  Her lack of self-importance is refreshing, her consideration for others admirable, but I d have liked her to indulge herself   and?us   with a little more about her life now ...   She speaks from the heart, but retains a sort of privacy, and is all the more powerful for it,  agreed .   is an antidote to the pappy, pop motivation of Sheryl Sandberg and Arianna Huffington, with their Lean In and Thrive manifestos,  wrote  in the Times.  Tomalin is like a glacier, unstoppable, inexorable, gathering grit and resolve as she goes   She is intimate and confiding, distrustful and reclusive. She is like a new friend who spills secrets, pours out her heart, then shuts up like a clamshell when you ask for more. The 63 short essays in Karl Ove Knausgaard s   can inch close to the trite, seemingly over-impressed with his childlike vision of the world , wrote  in the Observer. No, no, they  capture the wonder of things with photographic immediacy , according to  in the Times, who added that  it all feels as Scandi as Moomins and salty liquorice . On the contrary, the book is one  brain fart  after another    a book of rough sketches by a man who?doesn t know how to draw , said?the Sunday Times s . Or perhaps it is  all beautifully done , in the view of , for whom Knausgaard  describes things with a bracing sense of innocence   ordinary things, such as rubber boots,?teeth, frogs and?plastic bags .  saw it from both sides. The mini essays are  full of wonders , she wrote.  There are misfires (the toilet bowl, he rhapsodises, is the  swan of the bath chamber ) but fewer than you d expect. 																																											