ight, where were we then, in  (ITV)? Adam and Tina the landlady, that s right. They finally got it together, at the end of the last series (the first of Cold Feet 2.0, AKA Old Feet).And now, at the start of the new one, they re having a baby, already. Oh, it s a dream sequence. But it appears to mean that Adam is getting broody. At his age, he s morphing into Mick bloody Jagger. And Spanish Ramona, who showed up again at the end last time out, is still around. Ramona remains. Ironic, really, that her name has come to be a (kinda) homophone for someone who s unhappy about the result of last year s referendum, and she might end up having to go back to the EU herself. For now, though, she s answering the phone for Karen at her publisher. Answering it very badly   you d think her English would have improved after all this time. She s basically the female . Jen s jealous of Karen s friendship with Tina, because no one ever really grows up, the playground just continues throughout life. Pete s black dog isn t around, at least for now. He s swapped the taxiing for chauffeuring, and gets David an introduction to the Cheshire set. Wags and the like   they look like they might be fun. There are some good touches; I like the children interviewing Adam for a job at a hipster startup that matches consumers with designers. There are some less good ones   like Adam and Tina s I love u... nicorns mix-up. And there are some old ones (sometimes the best ones), like the car going through a big puddle (it s Manchester, don t forget), soaking Adam in his smart suit. Best location: an empty Victorian swimming pool, venue for the launch of the first book Karen is publishing. Best tune: . Again, it s like a university reunion. Last year was the first; you hadn t seen them for years, and though you d had your reservations about it, it was surprisingly fun, reminding you why you liked these people in the first place. Now, just one year on, they re doing it all over again. And you re wondering whether it s such a good idea. I mean, you still like them, but perhaps you have less in common now.																																											