ill & Grace made an unexpected comeback last September after 10 years away from the small screen, releasing . The short clip got the old gang back together to discuss the impending election. Will and Grace were as appalled at the idea of Donald Trump the presidential candidate as they were at the notion of a  butt double  in 50 Shades of Grey. Karen, of course, is friends with the Trumps, and returns from a stay in Mar-a-Lago with Donald and Melania.  Please tell me you are not voting for that guy,  Will pleads.  All he does is call people names.   Grace, did you hear what your pussy gay Muslim boyfriend just said?  Karen fires back.What a difference a year makes: it seemed much funnier in September 2016 than it does in September 2017, where it seems more documentary than sitcom. Nevertheless, it was the preamble to a reboot, with the cast returning for a full season this fall. (Whether it will address the original season finale, which made it clear that Will and Grace had not spoken in 18 years, is yet to be seen.)  unravels into a self-referential musical, in which Eric McCormack and Debra Messing visit the old set, only to find the characters of Jack and Karen still there, unaware that they re part of a TV show. It mentions Instagram and Airbnb, so we know we re in for contemporary jokes.  has a gag about Grindr. Apps are an easy way of making jokes sound current. Aren t smartphones modern! I give it until episode three before Snapchat filters see them all with kitten ears and cute pink noses.  It was a phenomenon that changed television forever,  announces the voiceover. Whether this is true is up for debate; I have a soft spot for the original series, despite its flaws, and am intrigued to see if it can survive today. Though its limitations have been made more obvious by its decade of absence, particularly its strange queasiness about gay people doing gay stuff like kissing, it certainly provided something fresh and new in 1998 when it first aired on NBC.That s a problem not only for the new Will & Grace, but for TV as a whole, which is in the grip of a wave of nostalgia, so much so that even the trashy 80s extravaganza Dynasty is getting a much-needed chance to show us rich people being awful onscreen. Like movies, music and even video games, television has realised that new versions of old things are highly appealing to a certain audience, who have an in-built fondness for something they once knew. The warmth of familiarity can make a launch a much less risky proposition than something totally alien, though the recent Baywatch movie flop showed this strategy is not without limits. The most talked-about TV revivals all had a huge impact on culture, but crucially, those impacts were of their moment. Talk of an L Word reboot, featuring some of the original cast but focusing on a new generation of queer women, takes a show that once stormed television simply because it was unlike anything before it and brings it into the modern era. As with Will & Grace, this lays bare the flaws of the original. While it was soapy and spectacular, it was also questionable, in hindsight, on things like class, race, trans issues and bisexuality. The danger is that if the show changes too much, people will miss its familiarity and its legacy may suffer   but in order to remain relevant, it must adapt to its current context. This is a delicate balance to find.It s something Roseanne will have to grapple with too, even more so than its  the last season was all a dream  finale. Announcing the show s return, ABC claimed that when its first episode aired,  television was changed forever . It was changed because the show spoke about class, and put a self-defined  respectable white trash family  scraping together a living at the centre of its story. The ABC Entertainment president, Channing Dungey, has said that the return will  speak very honestly  about the Trump era, and that it will  bring back a point of view that has really been missing on the air . This assessment risks feeding into the myth that working-class voters elected Trump   again and again, it s been proven that the majority of his supporters were from middle-to-high-income households   but perhaps the show itself will be able to make that plain. There are two recent pinnacles of TV s revival culture, which indicate when it works and when it does not. When Netflix brought Arrested Development back to life, the news was received with near ecstasy by fans. There was a sense that after only three seasons, the sitcom had been cut short in its prime by a network that did not understand its genius. But its fourth season was a letdown; it was messy, overly long and confused. Though fans  appetites may have been blunted, that hasn t dampened Netflix s enthusiasm   the streaming service announced a fifth season in May.  In talks with Netflix we all felt that stories about a narcissistic, erratically behaving family in the building business   and their desperate abuses of power   are really underrepresented on TV these days,  the show s creator, Mitch Hurwitz, said in a statement at the time, with winning self-awareness. (When discussing the return of , Larry David was asked about a similar kind of context, now that rich men s political incorrectness is perhaps more of a talking point than when the show originally aired.  Well, I don t consider myself a prick,  he replied, succinctly.)The stakes were higher for Twin Peaks, which had been off the air since 1991, following a notoriously shambolic second season ruined by network interference. Fans seemed as nervous as they were excited. While other shows can claim to have changed television, few had the long-lasting reach and impact on culture that Twin Peaks did. The new third season is not yet over, but so far David Lynch has only solidified the series  legacy, by making something more inventive and more astonishing than Twin Peaks fans might have dared to dream a strange dream of. If the creators have new stories to tell, and if there are new ways in which to tell them, then nostalgia may not be as damaging to TV as it has been to Hollywood. But those ifs are big.																																											