In his last show,    which took its title from a porcelain figure that his late father bought as an investment   Sh?n Dale-Jones asked what the things we value say about us. Now he turns his attention to the increasing divide between rich and poor and wonders whether it s time for the return of Robin Hood. It s a thoughtful piece of low key but consummate storytelling that scratches at all sort of dilemmas, from whether giving to charity is merely a sticking plaster to asking whether giving away all our stuff would really change anything., Sergio Blanco s slippery play makes a welcome return in an impressive production by Daniel Goldman, a great champion of South American theatre. He s got a little cracker here: a two-hander that asks why a son might kill his father and then offers many different answers. It could have been as dry as tinder but is as playful as a puzzle. Terrific stuff.With Stephen Hawking and others warning that , 1927 s witty parable has never seemed so pertinent. Melding live action with live music and animation, it has a wonderfully retro feel as it tells the story of the golem. Originally purchased as a way to make life easier for its owner, it is soon the one that s doing the manipulating., but this raucous play incorporating the music of  is the show that keeps on giving. Paul Sirett s script   centred on a night in the pub in 1979   is not sophisticated, but it serves its purpose as something on which to hook the songs. The evening soon becomes wonderfully defiant as the disabled-actor led company turn Dury s track Spasticus Autisticus   banned by the BBC in 1981   into a joyous anthem.Luke Wright premiered a new work at Edinburgh, but here s one he made earlier. As disillusioned music journo Nick is taken to a London estate for a festival, the show spools back 20 years to his time at university. It s full of fury as it explores broken friendships and the hollow dreams of the New Labour years.The dance-theatre duo, responsible for site-specific works such as , move indoors for this intense, intimate performance about the trickiness of memory.Jose Agudo takes inspiration from Dante s Divine Comedy in this sensual dance-theatre piece from Akademi. A welcome return for  s nuanced, beautifully imagined study of the psychological and physical challenges of serving in the military. 																																											