In recent years  has traded the mildly soporific hummus house of his earlier albums for an altogether leaner direction. SW9 9SL   the postcode of Brixton Academy, where Hebden throws annual all-night raves   is a thrilling addition to this era in his catalogue. What starts as a wash of yearning synths blossoms into a head-spin of shuffling kicks and murky, searching bass. Four Tet doesn t always get it right, but when he does it s absolute rocket fuel.Some people love to slag off , which is unfair, really. Just because a corduroy-wearing, craft beer-drinking man reaches a certain age doesn t mean he stops having feelings! That said, now global politics is in meltdown mode, their drunk sincerity has lost some of its charm. I can t get that worked up about a bloke in his 40s singing about his old girlfriends when the world could end any day.What a time we live in, when the richest pop musicians in the world get together and the best thing they can manage is this pound-shop party reggae. It s not exactly Say, Say, Say is it?  is back on his hyper-clean emotionless tip,  sounds very bored, and Calvin Harris has Matthew McConaughey s moustache from Dazed and Confused now. Technically  catchy , but you can t make disco without soul.Fans of blissing out in bedrooms with strong incense may already be aware of Danish balearic and new-age label Music for Dreams. Heaven s Voice, from producer the Swan and the Lake s recent EP for the label, is a breathtaking reminder of exactly what makes the imprint so great. Like swimming through clouds, this is an impeccable track for the end of the night crash.By now, listening to  s music feels a bit like reading a really trendy magazine. You know, one of those ridiculously expensive ones that is just full of photos of bongs and poodles and no words. On Provider he drifts through references to Prada, Gildan, Aphex Twin and Kubrick, and while it all sounds surface-level dreamy, is it possible his voice is starting to get a bit   whisper it now   boring?																																											