In the interests of transparency, I have to confess that I neglected my RR duties last Saturday and spent several hours traipsing over . On the way down, weary and footsore, I was roughly two hours from the car when  s Keep Right On to the End of the Road popped into my head, resolutely staying there for the rest of the walk. It was stereotypically Scottish, topic- and location-appropriate, and intensely annoying. So obviously I m sharing it with you at the beginning of this playlist.Persevering with the outdoorsy feel, next up we have the  and This Year. An upbeat yet reflective number, containing a fundamental assertion of persistence:  I am going to make it through this year / If it kills me. , a few spots this week were reserved for regularly-yet-unsuccessfully-nominated tunes (or   for those who prefer the scientific term discussed in the Readers recommend glossary). First up in that category is The Mary Ellen Carter by , which has previously been put forward for the topics of boats, resilience, gases, iron and steel, sticking it to the man and girls  names. Indefatigable or what?Returning to the on-theme suggestions,  issues a rallying cry for tenacity in Keep On Keeping On ...... while the  keeps on the, er, keeping on bandwagon, with Keep On Running. A classic hook leads neatly to a classical tune. Reader Pairubu describes Mushi No Onna by  () thus:  Jun takes the song ... set to Pachelbel s Canon and basically whips it into submission in a series of screams, shrieks and cries that ooze desperation . Oddly enough, that vocal style was the one adopted early in his career by the great . It was only latterly that his approach mellowed sufficiently to afford the contrast now evident in his rendition of The Impossible Dream.A similar sentiment about stoicism   but with more synthesisers   crops up in  s :All these positives about persistence notwithstanding, it would be negligent to deny that there can be a darker side. In my favourite nomination this week, :  A song about being aggressively and persistently stalked by a child who looks like a cross between Ed Sheeran, Meatloaf and Chucky. This is what will be playing when I die and am damned to hell for all eternity.  We re probably best to draw a veil over  s I m Going to Knock on Your Door, and move on.Some observers may claim that there is no room in a playlist of this sort for two Caledonian-tinged, perambulation-based numbers. These people would of course be wrong, and accordingly next we have (I m Gonna Be) 500 miles by the . That one s more about stamina than stalking, incidentally.As we draw towards the end of proceedings, we have a pair of nominations exhorting persistence in others. Firstly, lyrics by Woody Guthrie on Jay Farrar and co s  tribute version of the former s :Compare that long-term vision with the more immediate snuggly benefits of doggedness referenced by , whereby if one keeps on doin  what one s doin , You re Gonna Get Next to Me. I d normally desist after 12 songs, but  simply had to make the cut. This is, as he puts it,  the most astonishing vocal tour de force . And what better way to end things than with a genuine showstopper in  s God s Great Dust Storm.The new theme will be announced at 8pm (BST) on . You have untilto submit nominations.Here is a reminder of some of the guidelines for readers recommend:																																											