ina McKee plays , the rebellious queen of the Iceni, in Tristan Bernays s new play about Roman subjugation and she is predictably good. The real surprise is finding a play that, for all its mixed messages for the Brexit age and odd blend of pastiche Shakespeare and four-letter excess, holds the stage with confidence. I enjoyed it infinitely more than all the rough Shakespeares seen at the Globe this summer. The setting is AD61 and Bernays expands on the few facts about Boudica   or Boadicea, as she is still known on a triumphalist statue on Westminster Bridge. We see her being deprived of her rightful kingdom, in modern East Anglia, after the death of her husband, whose wealth the Romans appropriate. Boudica is publicly flogged and her two daughters are raped. In alliance with other local kings   including Cunobeline, who actually died 20 years before the play starts   Boudica leads an uprising against the Romans and, after early military triumphs, is crushingly defeated. Over the centuries, Boudica has been a handy symbol for everyone from Victorian imperialists to the suffragettes. But what are we to make of her today? At first, I feared that Bernays might be providing solace to ardent leave backers who have dubbed Theresa May . The Romans are seen as cruel power-grabbers gobbling up native resources, and the locals celebrate military victory with a rock anthem proclaiming:  We will cut the bastards down, we will win back this land.  But just as you start to fear the play might be entering Farage territory, Bernays shows one of Boudica s daughters, Alonna, arguing for peace, befriending a first-generation Roman and routing her sister who talks of immigrants as  a tide of filth . So, by implication, it becomes a remain play after all. Bernays drives the story forward with great skill, and there are constant nods to Shakespeare: the language frequently slips into iambic pentameters, a Roman soldier has his tongue cut out like Lavinia in  and Boudica exactly echoes Cleopatra when she says, of a rival,  he words me . It just seems odd that the Iceni queen at other times comes out with lines such as  Shut your mouth, you stinking piece of shit , and that Bernays loads the dice by making the Roman centurions, while decrying Britannia s barbarians, talk like a bunch of lager louts., however, holds the play together. She doesn t roar or shout or adopt heroic poses. Instead she has the imposing stillness that betokens real authority, makes excellent use of her native north-eastern vowels and plays Boudica not as a nationalist icon but as an aggrieved woman seeking justice, and as a mother passionately concerned for her children. It s a performance far removed from breastplated Last Night of the Proms camp. Eleanor Rhode directs with an assurance that should make her a permanent fixture at the Globe,  s timbered set disintegrates to good effect and Jules Maxwell s music has a strong, percussive beat. Joan Iyiola and Natalie Simpson as Boudica s warring daughters, Abraham Popoola as a bombastic Belgic king and Forbes Masson as the anachronistic Cunobeline (Shakespeare s Cymbeline) lend firm support, while the play, which had looked as if it might become patriotic propaganda, ends by sensibly warning us of the danger of splenetic isolation.																																											