ink floorboards, yellow chairs, green cupboards and five different sorts of joyously clashing wallpaper: this could be a Richard Jones stage set, especially if you include the garden gnome. We are, in fact, in the director s south London house   though this meeting is quite a drama. Jones  never  does any interviews and claims to have forgotten how they go. If this was for World of Interiors I d be OK,  he muses, soft spoken, wry and a little nervous. Why the resistance?  Bad experiences.  Why agree now? He evades my question, focusing on the arrival of his cat. The answer   had he given one   might have been:  I guess it s about time. His answer would not be:  Because my new production of  at the Royal Opera House, replacing , is opening on Monday with a starry young cast conducted by Antonio Pappano.  True to form, Jones won t reveal anything about his new production. He thinks directors have nothing to say and the work should speak for itself. He hates the idea of  witnessing process. Cameras in rehearsal rooms? No-o-o. Born in London in 1953, Jones doesn t speak much of Damascene moments and doesn t tell anecdotes. Did he see much opera as a boy?  A bit. I probably went with my mum.  After comprehensive school he studied anthropology at  where he did once spot, without quite knowing who he was, its famous poet-librarian .  If it s OK we won t talk about education.  It s OK. We don t.After university, he put his energies into being a punk.  Or rather, I had a boyfriend who was a punk. We watched  and hung out in Covent Garden, which was a very different place then, quite scuzzy, badly lit     A good musician, he worked as a jazz pianist, playing in bars and for West End shows, which gave him valuable insight into the mechanics of theatre. He performed, too    I ve never said this before    at the  in Great Queen Street, cult home of  and the New Romantics c1980, so hip it once turned away Mick Jagger at the door.It was  my own bohemian period. I was a bit aimless. There was still agit prop in those days   theatre as agent for social change, a pretty risible idea now. I loved the tough, cool productions of , and classical ballet, too. Still do. Both showed you exactly where the eye should look   perfect tutorials for a would-be director. After initial forays in rooms above pubs, Jones made a mainstream theatre splash directing  in 1988. At the same time, he turned to opera. His version of Prokofiev s  and English National Opera the following year, in which scratch and sniff cards were handed to the audience, was deemed irritating and intriguing. Here was something novel, zany and outrageous.Then in the mid 90s came. Uneven but intelligent, the production also struck many as inept and provoked bilious headlines. Jones is in two minds about it.  I d love to have another go at . Nearly 25 years on, I can safely say aspects of that production were catastrophic.  Music director Bernard Haitink was not sympathetic to Jones s  naked  Rhinemaidens fattened up with Latex body suits, or to Wotan carrying a one-way sign for a spear, or Br nnhilde wearing a brown paper bag over her head. The difficulties were well recorded.Yet Jones was never out of work, at home or abroad, directing productions in Germany, on Broadway ( the musical) and at Glyndebourne. His style is unmistakable, whether in the human zoo in ), the inflatable horrors of Mark-Anthony Turnage s ) or the exquisite, white-starched serenity of , part of ). You liked ? I m glad,  he asks, surprised, as if no one else had. It was universally acclaimed.  I was worried about the nuns. That bit at the end when the madonna and angels come on  But it seemed to go OK. It s all there in Puccini s stage directions. They are so detailed, as they are in , too. Tony Pappano is amazing, very attentive to all that. He has collaborated with Pappano many times, calling him  a fantastic colleague and very funny. It s terrible if a conductor doesn t have a theatre gene. A lot don t.  He won t say which, but points to  and  as among those who do have it.Jones agrees that after four decades he has established  quite a monotonous method  of directing:  Backstory, biography, where the action is, what the temperature was, what they re trying to achieve in a scene. I like clarity of intention. It s not a crime to read . I try to be quite rigorous. It s hard. But these are top professionals, a brilliant team with none of that ego that can cripple things in rehearsal. Three weeks in a production room and then a tough birth    And then there s the pressure of replacing the Copley show, a hallowed Royal  ritual that enjoyed 26 outings and several hundred performances.  I can t think about it. The other day I took a peek   on DVD   at the beginning of Act IV of the old production. Then I panicked and turned it off. Not out of disrespect ... I know it s given people great joy. A member of the public asked Jones, perhaps hopefully, the other day whether his  would be traditional.  I wasn t being disingenuous    a favourite Jones word    but said,  Please can you tell me what traditional means in this context?  You have to try to do it for someone who s never seen the show. Even the performers come with an idea of how it should go, an imago, so they may resist what I suggest. We re currently having some discussion over   the ending.  He skilfully manages not to spill the beans.  It s a lot easier doing something like    a new piece, a blank page. He considers  bullet-proof,  like . Some pieces just are.  He s too canny to mean this in terms of his own production. It s a practical observation. Other great operas lack that indestructible quality.  There s a lot of plate-spinning in, say, , where you have to convince the audience they re watching a dynamic show. It s not dynamic in the same way as  is. He has directed Puccini s 1896 masterpiece, based on  by Henri Murger, once before, in Bregenz. That   didn t work so well , he concedes. For the new ROH production, he will rehearse the first of three casts, then hand over to a team of staff directors who will continue it until Christmas. Meanwhile, Jones will head to the Almeida theatre to direct , based on the early 1960s American sci-fi TV series  dealing with aliens, nuclear war, anxiety, all rather prophetic    and all rather up Jones s psycho-fantastical street.For an interview sceptic, he has been generous and obliging. As we wind up, he bursts into a paean to .  It s a fantastic play. It s through-composed. The text is faultless, it s economic, propulsive. It s got really ingenious characters. Everyone s ambiguous morally. Everyone s good and bad. It s almost like Chekhov. It s about the young, the vulnerable. It s about people falling in love, squabbling, parting, reuniting. Then at the end something devastating happens. That s an amazing theatrical formula. It makes people s hearts joyful, and it breaks their hearts. That s what it s there for. That s quite a sell, and still his production secrets are safe. Our two-hander drama over, Jones goes off to feed his tabby, quite prepared for whatever sharper claws are out on Monday night., London WC2E, on 11 September. roh.org.uk. The performance .																																											