ir Arthur Conan Doyle strongly believed in the possibility of spiritual survival after death. If he was right, his own ghost must be amazed and gratified by the adaptability of the Sherlock Holmes stories. With top-rating TV modernisations   theand?  on each side of the Atlantic, American writer Joe Ide now begins a series of novels relocating the brain of Baker Street to South Central Los Angeles.Holmes finds his latest incarnation in Isaiah Quintabe, a 26-year-old African American, whose brilliant mind justifies his initial-nickname of IQ. In Hurston, a rough area where the finest diner is the Big Meaty Burger, he?sets up as a private eye, taking on  local cases where the police could not or would not get involved .IQ has known, as his London predecessor did, the temptation of recreational drugs, and his understanding of the criminal mentality is based on experience. His involvement in crime was typically idiosyncratic, stealing items (hair extensions, luxury pet products such as  feline epilepsy strips ) with low security but high resale value.In common with all renovated Holmeses, Isaiah is notable for noticing, although, when complimented on his deductive skills, characteristically corrects the compliment, pointing out?that the process he employs is, in fact,  induction , in which a broader truth is drawn from a particular detail, rather than  deduction , which does the opposite.Ide sensibly leaves to Benedict Cumberbatch s TV version those signature riffs in which a stranger is immediately categorised as a bisexual zoo-keeper who plays cribbage on alternate Thursdays. IQ s inductive leaps tend to come from a single sight, sound or smell that no one else has considered significant. He survives one?violent stand-off through mental arithmetic and sharp hearing.Ide s relationship with the original stories is loose but learned. IQ s sidekick is Juanell Dodson who, unlike John Watson, could only claim a medical title in the way that , although, like Conan Doyle s creation, he is a war veteran; in his case, from the gang battles in LA.IQ s brother, Marcus, seems clearly to be a version of Holmes s sibling Mycroft, although, in a formative character point, the elder Quintabe boy is present only in the 2005-06 flashback chapters that interleave the main storyline set in 2013. The absence of Marcus is what made his brother a detective; in an electrifying scene, the 17-year-old Isaiah teaches himself to memorise every detail of each passing car, convinced that the gift of total recall will prevent him from ever forgetting Marcus.Most satisfyingly, the plot line of the first novel adapts a Conan Doyle plot      in a recognisable but thrillingly distorted form. A superstar rapper, Calvin Wright, who records as Black the Knife, faces an attempted assassination by a 130lb pit bull, who seems to?have been bred by an enemy for murderous purpose.Many people s idea of a perfect crime novel would combine the narrative and characterisation of Conan Doyle with the phrase-making of and, while openly acknowledging the first debt, Ide also makes a quietly impressive attempt at the second. Paragraphs crackle with one-liners that?capture telling details about a person   the possessions of Black the Knife include  a bundle of rolled-up antique Persian prayer rugs from his two weeks as a practising Muslim    or?a place: a finance tycoon s mansion is so big that  you could take a piss every day for three weeks and never be?in the same bathroom .Like his protagonist, Ide is brilliant at noticing, spotting in the background of a cycle shop  a family of eyeless mannequins pedaling along in matching spandex . The career of a struggling TV reporter is skewered by her showreel of past stories having included  a kid that carved whistles for the troops overseas. A potbellied pig that could say I love you . But, between the jokes, there is also serious critique of an American society willing to sacrifice so?many (disproportionately black) lives through its gun laws and educational policies.A small regret is that, in the first book, Isaiah does not seem to encounter anyone who might become a recurrent potential nemesis in the manner of Moriarty, but the blurb of the second IQ novel, , published in the UK next year, suggests that such a criminal mastermind will arrive in that book, which sounds like Conan Doyle s  translated to Las Vegas. Nor, so far, is there any direct equivalent of the housekeeper Mrs Hudson in the  hood.With Ide already signed to write the third and fourth books in the series, it will be fascinating to see which details from his inspiration the writer adopts. Promisingly, the first book succeeds in being both highly original and continuing the spirit of Conan Doyle. Mark Lawson s  is published by Picador. is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson. To order a copy for ?7.64 (RRP ?8.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											