It is being described by the very few who have seen dress rehearsals as a  thriller ,  the grief Hamlet , and  vibrant  with an  extraordinary  central performance by its superstar lead.Sounds good? To see or not to see? Looking for a debit card? Well unless you were randomly selected for a ticket then forget about it. You will never see one of the most anticipated theatrical events of the year: HiddleHamlet.Tom Hiddleston on Friday night takes to the stage in London for his , as directed by Sir Kenneth Branagh. The production is raising funds for the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (Rada), and is staged in Rada s 160-seat Jerwood Vanbrugh theatre. It is running for only three weeks with tickets offered via a now closed lottery. Instead of the estimated 250,000 people who watched , on stage and , it will be seen by just short of 4,000. What is exciting is to have a fundraiser which is also about the art,  said the director of Rada, Edward Kemp.  Sometimes it is about how can we extract as much cash from people as possible   what has been thrilling about this is how do we do something which raises money for Rada and serves the values that we and the Kenneth Branagh theatre company stand for? It is piece of art, not just a big old gala. Branagh became president of Rada about 18 months ago and Kemp recalled talking with him about directing a show,  thinking it would be a third-year student production. He rang back a week later to say that he and Tom had been talking. Branagh had, in fact, been talking to Hiddleston for 10 years about directing him in Hamlet but clashing schedules meant it never happened.  They suddenly thought, actually, this is a way we could make this work,  said Kemp.It felt important to stage the play at Rada and that would bring its own rewards, he said.  There is something about the intimacy of the experience that has made the production very special. It is really extraordinary seeing this play that close. Nobody in the theatre is more than about 12ft away from the stage. In the fight at the end you are pretty much in the fight if you are in the front row. Critics have not been invited   though some may have managed to get a ticket through the ballot   purely because Rada wants to maximise the money raised, and that has ruffled some feathers.Mark Shenton, an associate editor of the Stage and chair of the theatre critics  circle, said he understood the reasons for not inviting critics, but it was  difficult to shift a sense of exclusivity around this Hamlet .However, he added:  Reviewing it would only amplify the disappointment of those who can t see it and put critics in an impossible position of extreme privilege. So it s right that we were excluded. Shenton said a possible lack of critics raised interesting questions.  It makes one wonder: if this tree falls, or rises majestically, in the forest of Hamlets around at the moment, will it have actually happened if critics weren t there to record it?  All funds raised will support the  which aims to bring in ?20m for the regeneration of the school s Chenies Street premises, providing a library and, for the first time, on-site accommodation for students.There are no plans to film the production, no returns and measures in place to prevent secondary ticketing. Put simply, if people do not have a golden ticket, they will not see it.Of course that does not mean Hiddleston may never do Hamlet again. John Gielgud played the role more than 500 times in six productions; Mark Rylance was in three.Because there is no chance of seeing it, there will be many theatre lovers who do not want to know if Hiddleston s Hamlet is as good as the numerous recent popular Hamlets   from  to Cumberbatch to , currently in the West End.For those who do want to know, expect social media to be a blur of reaction over the next few weeks.Kemp is one of the few who has seen it and reports that it is modern dress, and set in a modern kingdom that is recognisably Denmark. More than other Hamlets I ve seen recently I would say it is a play about grief,  he said.  Someone said to me last night this is the  grief Hamlet . It has a cast of 10, and  felt like a genuine ensemble, not just a star and some other people. It feels very present, alive and of now. There are also nudges to other kinds of leaders. I ll say no more than that.  																																											