It is probably unwise to deem one terrorist attack more depraved than another, but there was something especially monstrous about the suicide bombing that occurred at Ariana Grande s Manchester concert in May. In all, 22 people were killed and 59 seriously injured   mostly children attending the show and parents accompanying them. Narrated by Christopher Eccleston, this film reflects on the attack and the response that followed. Relax, they ve not ruined it. Two new hosts and one new judge is enough change, and   bar bolder colours and the odd on-the-nose gag   it s confidently the same. Prue Leith and Sandi Toksvig fare well, and Noel Fielding isn t the panicked prank hire some feared. In any case, he is eased in, with most of the quips and sauce offered by the contestants, who know their role involves laughs as much as loaves. We re back in the old groove. In Prof Uta Frith s view, there s a tendency in Hollywood towards an almost  romantic hankering  for psychopaths. In tonight s investigation, she seeks to present a psychologist s understanding of psychopathy: how do we identify a psychopath   and can you turn one away from  the dark side ? Containing graphic, disturbing interviews with incarcerated killers, this informative doc can t help but feel ghoulish in places. An appearance on The Island is a risky celebrity gambit   this isn t always a series that shows its participants  best sides. And so it proves: our volunteers are arguing before they have even reached dry land. A study of gender dynamics emerges   the alpha males, led by gobby former athlete Iwan Thomas, go hell for leather. And then they run out of water, sit down for a cry and wait for the women (in particular, comic Shazia Mirza) to save them. The Victorian medical sitcom continues, with down-at-heel dentist John s largest creditor coming a-knocking. Elsewhere, Robert s attempts to climb the buttery social ladder founder without patronage from some loftier social strata, but moneyed misanthrope Lady Campbell might just offer a path to social betterment. And a put-upon Caroline aims to outsmart the patriarchal poltroons who pull the strings at the society of apothecaries. Trigger warning: for any other sitcom, a six-episode retrospective narrated by Terence Stamp might seem a bit much. But John Sullivan s beloved saga of wheeler-dealing and questionable cocktails occupies a special place in the nation s heart. This opening episode examines the fractious central relationship between the brothers Trotter, with insights from David Jason, Nicholas Lyndhurst and the creme de la menthe of UK comedy. Jack is the son of Rick Stein, but apart from that he s the cook with no hook   we re given no explanation for us why the young chef might be making a cooking show, never mind one in Australia. There s some diving for abalone and some hunting for truffles, but with not much indication as to how or why you might want to do so. It s left to some linking chats with Dad   presence, again, unexplained   to serve up some charm.  (Tomas Alfredson, 2011) 9pm, More4Cold war Britain is powerfully evoked in all its dreary, down-at-heel detail as old-school spy George Smiley (Gary Oldman) negotiates a mind-bogglingly complex plot of double   and triple   cross. Among the superb cast caught up in the old boys  network are Benedict Cumberbatch, Tom Hardy, Toby Jones and Colin Firth. 10.30am, Sky Sports Cricket. Coverage of the fifth and final day of the second Test at Headingley. It s the last chance for the West Indies to save face, after a contest that has seen them on noticeably poor form.2.30am, BT Sport 1. Action from the National League West clash at Chase Field.																																											