ith the Channel 4 series of dramas based on his short stories starting,  has cemented his reputation as one of the most adapted science fiction authors of the modern age.The most famous big-screen outing of recent years was Ridley Scott s , released in 1982, the year the author died. But there has also been , starring Arnold Schwarzenegger (and its 2012 remake);  (2002), with Tom Cruise; the Richard Linklater  rotoscoped  version of , which overlayed animation on live-action footage of Keanu Reeves; and 2011 s .PKD, as he s usually known, most recently came to prominence thanks to the Amazon TV series based on his 1962 alternative history novel , which posited an America controlled by the Nazis on the east coast and the Japanese on the west after the second world war., the 10-part Channel 4 series, features adaptations of PKD s short stories, each with a different screenwriter. The contemporary appeal is obvious. His stories often deal with themes of corporate greed, authoritarian control, artificial intelligence, drugs and how technology can be used to both elevate and subdue individuals and populations.Charlie Brooker s phenomenally successful series  owes a big debt to PKD and his dystopian visions. Indeed, life seems to become more and more like a PKD story; in the days before  is aired we ve had shrill news stories about sex robots that could be hacked to carry out murder, and the unveiling of a new iPhone that unlocks itself through . Increasingly it feels as if this is PKD s world, and we just live in it.Two complaints often arise in any conversation about the author, though. One, he was awful at titles   at least, marquee-friendly titles.  (an aside; the forthcoming film , while not based directly on a PKD work, is eagerly awaited for continuing the story of Deckard, played in the original by Harrison Ford) was called in its novel form ;  was ; and the 1995  was based on a short story called  Second Variety , while  had only just a slight tweak from the original title of .The other point is more contentious: that PKD actually wasn t a very good writer. There will be protests from the self-confessed Dickheads who adore him and, personally, I think the criticism is a little unfair. There s a sparseness to his prose, for sure, and some of his dialogue is clunky and awkward. He certainly doesn t have the narrative flair of contemporaries such as . But what PKD had, and what Hollywood has known for decades and TV is switching on to now, was ideas.We re often more forgiving of beautiful literary prose with little substance, or that rehashes old ideas in a fresh way, than we are of writers who turn out new concepts but perhaps in a less stylish manner. PKD was a high-concept writer, and sometimes it feels as though ideas were bursting out of his mind at such a pace that he didn t have time for the intricacies of wordplay.His UK publisher Gollancz has republished the  stories in an anthology with introductions by the writers who have brought them to TV. What stands out in almost all cases is that they ve taken PKD s central idea and built a narrative around it. This is typical: , ,   they all have at their heart the original concept from the source material, but PKD adaptations that slavishly follow the text are rare.  has already stretched to two seasons, far outstripping the original book.Ronald D Moore, the writer behind the  reboot, has adapted PKD s  Exhibit Piece  (retitled  Real Life ) for , and he says:  Very little remains of this story in the show, but the heart, and perhaps more importantly the brains behind the episode originate in this tale. Should we think any less of Dick for this? Is writing just words assembled in a pretty order, or is it ideas and concepts and things that no one has ever thought of before? The answer, of course, is that the best writing is both.																																											