Jack Whitehall presents this look at seven decades of Edinburgh s splendid festival, and the more eccentric and expansive fringe that has coalesced around it. Interviewees including Alexei Sayle, Shappi Khorsandi, Alan Cumming and Ian McKellen reflect on their own experiences, accurately depicting Edinburgh as a glorious corral of surprises, inspirations, strange encounters, and some of the best and worst entertainment around. More magical domestic transformations with roaming DIY troubleshooter Aidan Keane. The essence of this show is proving that a big budget doesn t necessarily guarantee success and, conversely, that you can make a big difference to your home with a small amount of money. Tonight, Reg and Paula are splashing the cash on a dream kitchen while Saul and Amanda aim to work wonders on a shoestring. The wholesale plundering of Ant and Dec s Wonky Donkey continues, despite withering notices from viewers, who have compared the show to everything from a Victorian execution to the televisual equivalent of waterboarding. This week, Len is joined by celebs including Gareth Malone, Nina Wadia and his old Strictly mucker Ore Oduba, playing the rhyming quiz opposite retired nurse Carolynne and area manager Craig.  Iolo Williams, rugged but boyishly enthused, strides around Llyn Padarn in Snowdonia, dipping into its slate-quarry history with a look at restored steam engines and a disused gunpowder storage hut. His main focus, however, is the wildlife, kicking off with a rarely seen ring ouzel and moving on to spot wood warblers, pied flycatchers, arctic charrs, lapwings and more. As Iolo himself would say: it s a lovely programme, it really is. Manchester s Eggs Collective bring their Edinburgh fringe show to TV, with a mix of theatre, slapstick and spot-on observation about a night at the pub. The trio offer a barrage of one-liners covering essential topics such as drinking on antibiotics, substituting a large house white for a pint of Bailey s and saving the world with one night out. If R&B-soundtracked fantasy sequences and cheesy puffs are your jam, dive right in. One of the most pleasant aspects of co-watching TV with small children, amid all the ghastly animated tales of canine heroism and suchlike, is CBeebies  bedtime stories, and the stars they persuade to read them. Tonight, Tom Hardy pays tribute to his recently deceased pooch Woody on National Dog Day, by reprising his reading of Helen Stephens s story about the friendship between a young boy and a scruffy canine. David White s career might have been quite different had he followed his Do Not Adjust Your Set co-performers into Python. But then he wouldn t have become Sir David Jason, one of Britain s best-loved actors. In the first of this three-part trip down memory lane, he meets former collaborators such as Michael Palin and Open All Hours creator Roy Clarke   who swears Granville became a  sexual symbol  up north. Paul Greengrass s account of a real-life Somali pirate hijacking is an unnerving action movie, underpinned by a powerful sense of the global economic forces that separate the haves and have-nots. Ultimately, it focuses on the riveting confrontation between the eponymous captain (Tom Hanks) and the pirates  leader (Barkhad Ali), both struggling for control of the cargo ship. In a remote corner of Argentina, 1960, Eva and Enzo are reopening the family hotel, where the first guest is a mysterious German doctor (Alex Brendem hl). He is wealthy and charming, but strangely fascinated by the genetic makeup of the couple s 12-year-old daughter, and by the news that Eva is pregnant with twins. Meanwhile, the papers are full of the intensifying search for Nazis in hiding  Not just any old white suit: eccentric inventor Sidney Stratton (Alec Guinness) creates a material in his hubble-bubbling apparatus that lasts for ever, never gets dirty, and brings him nothing but trouble. Capitalist bosses Cecil Parker and Ernest Thesiger are horrified by a product that will put them out of business; the unions are aghast at a creation that could mean the end of their jobs. It sounds serious, but this classic, sharply satirical Ealing comedy will have you in stitches, and Guinness s deadpan act is a marvel to behold. Frustrated love is the metaphor for the sick spirit of the patrician Amberson family: young Isabel (Dolores Costello) loves car designer Eugene Morgan (Joseph Cotten) but is prevailed upon to marry one of the more suitable Minafer clan. Fast-forward 20 years   now widowed, her chance of happiness is again blocked, this time by her selfish, snobbish son George (Tim Holt), a true Amberson. A magnificent movie, despite the studio-cropped conclusion. Mark Chapman introduces coverage from Wembley Stadium, as Wigan Warriors take on Hull.Jill Douglas presents the action from Kingspan Stadium in Belfast.The much-hyped boxing v MMA bout from Las Vegas.																																											