Kara Lily Hayworth tackles the role of national treasure Priscilla White, AKA , in this stage reworking of ITV s Bafta-nominated biopic. Joan Littlewood s darkly satirical first world war musical, performed as a jovial end-of-pier show, comes to the Oldham Coliseum theatre from 8 to 30 September.Tom Stoppard s play   first staged in 1982   arrives at the Cambridge Arts theatre. Professional posh person  stars in an emotionally intense tale of life imitating art, which explores whether or not the love found in a passionate affair is   you guessed it   the real thing. Taking place across Hull city centre, this arts festival aims to bring out the fun and playful aspects of freedom via some fairly baffling installations, including DJ Frietmachine s dancing potatoes and Haircuts by Children, in which some kids go to work on a brave adult s barnet as a way of musing on our trust in the future. Or something. Featuring 200 objects ranging from hard-hitting posters to illuminated pharmacy signs, this new exhibition explores the role that graphic design plays in helping spread healthcare messages around the world. Pieces range from Aids advocacy group Act Up s famous SILENCE = DEATH pink triangle posters to images such as the one above, which brightens the walls of a hospital in Barcelona. Set in the Lake District town of Penrith, the C-Art festival aims to promote Cumbria s contemporary arts via exhibitions and installations. Highlights include Richard Dedomenici s Redux Project, which involves re-creating , while Beastie allows kids to create their own stories. True Faith explores the enduring influence of  and  s music over the art world, featuring works by Julian Schnabel,  and Kathryn Bigelow, alongside Peter Saville s iconic artwork, including his cover for New Order s Power, Corruption & Lies album.Do you enjoy noodly guitar solos, large print outfits and the word  trippy  used to describe visuals? Then you re in luck, because Manchester Psych festival   taking place across three venues   offers all that and more. Performers include shoegaze band Sulk, Anglophile US folkie Ryley Walker, indie pop rabble Teleman and hirsute Japanese noise merchants Bo Ningen. With last year s festival beset by the sort of rainfall that required tractors to shift cars from muddy car parks, the organisers will be hoping for even five minutes of sunshine to grace Portmeirion this time around. The weather did at least push people away from the main stage   which this year features ,  and Wild Beasts   and into the festival s more interesting nooks and crannies. Fancy a spot of hip-hop karaoke or a ukelele workshop? Then this  bespoke banquet of music, arts and culture  is the one for you. Clowns are awful. Like, genuinely, properly, my-god-what-is-that terrifying. , while Tim Curry scared most of the western world as Pennywise in the 1990 mini-series. Now Bill Skarsg?rd has stepped into the character s oversized shoes to scare a whole new generation. The trailers promise jumps, scares and more expertly applied makeup than a YouTube tutorial. 																																											