Late-night hosts on Monday addressed the solar eclipse, the now infamous photo of  looking at the sun without protective glasses, and a new report that protection at Trump Tower and for the president s entire family has depleted the Secret Service s funds. People all over America gathered today to watch the first total solar eclipse in 38 years,  , back from a hiatus of several weeks, began.  I went out, I had a great time. Everyone in the building enjoyed it. But I think it is safe to say that nobody in America enjoyed it more than Fox News s Shep Smith. Noah then showed footage of the anchor s coverage of the rare event, which rendered him more excitable than usual. That there is the joy of of a news anchor who finally gets to cover a story that doesn t involve Donald Trump,  Noah joked.  Today really felt like a special day in America. I don t know if you felt it, but everyone came together, we were all just doing the same thing. People in the street, kids came out of school. They were even watching at the White House,  the host explained.  Donald Trump and Melania were watching together, which surprised me because, two minutes of total darkness, that should have been her chance to escape. And apparently the president s aides were really worried about him so they told him not to look directly into the sun, and Donald Trump was like,  Don t worry about me, that s my policy. Don t look at the son. Don t talk to the son. And definitely don t celebrate the son s birthday,  Noah said, showing a photo of Eric Trump.The host detailed his vacation to South Africa and the country s history of apartheid before addressing the violence in Charlottesville that occurred while The Daily Show was off the air. Turns out I left the third world and landed in the Third Reich,  Noah said. He went on:  I know that this happened a week ago, but I m still processing everything. First of all, a racist neo-Nazi kills a peacefully protesting woman with his car. Then the president of the United States defended the neo-Nazis who that dude was marching with. Not once, but twice. This was clearly not what presidents do. After tragic national events, even a mediocre leader says the things to unite the country, to calm the tensions, not inflame them,  the host said.  Seven months into his term   41 months to go, by the way   and the president of the United States has officially legitimized white supremacists, basically saying we need to see things from the Nazi point of view. Noah then showed recent polling data about the president s response to Charlottesville, in which 67% of Republicans supported his response to the tragedy. If so many of Trump s supporters are willing to give Nazis the benefit of the doubt, then clearly anything goes,  he concluded.  There s no line that they won t cross and clearly no cross that they won t burn. Conan O Brien of TBS also addressed the day s news and the latest regarding Trump. After being advised specifically not to look at the sun without protective glasses, President Trump stared at the eclipse today without protective glasses,  O Brien began.  So afterwards everyone started advising him,  Whatever you do, don t resign. Don t do that.  O Brien also weighed in briefly on a report claiming that the Secret Service is struggling with its budget given that 42 people in Trump s orbit are given Secret Service protection. A new report came out that it costs so much to protect President Trump s entire family, that the Secret Service is going bankrupt,  O Brien said.  In fact, today the Secret Service asked Trump if they could just skip Eric. And experts are saying that president Trump is already preparing for the 2020 election. Some people think that s overly optimistic, but others are saying, no, he ll probably be paroled by then,  O Brien quipped.																																											