Late-night hosts on Thursday addressed Donald Trump s meeting with Democratic leaders  and Chuck Schumer, in which Trump reportedly agreed to a deal to preserve the Daca program he abruptly cancelled just weeks ago. After repeatedly failing through the first eight months of his presidency to pass any major legislation, Trump has been making a renewed push to court Democrats to support his domestic agenda,  Seth Meyers began.  On Tuesday, he hosted a group of Democratic senators at the White House for dinner. Meyers said:  The meeting with Democratic senators comes after Trump stunned Republicans by striking a deal with Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer to keep the government open for three months and provide aid to hurricane victims. And last night, Trump met yet again with Schumer and Pelosi about the Daca program. Trump ended the program but hoped to use it as leverage to get funding for his border wall. And after their meeting last night, Schumer and Pelosi issued a statement basically claiming total victory. Meyers then explained Pelosi and Schumer s statement after the meeting, which claimed the pair had convinced Trump not to end Daca in exchange for added border security measures, not including the president s proposed border wall.Meyers continued:  So Trump initially promised that Mexico would pay for the wall, then he said Congress would pay for the wall, then he said he would trade Daca to pay for the wall, and now he s trading Daca and no one s paying for the wall. He might be the worst negotiator since Daffy Duck. One of the joys of this whole episode has been watching the president s staunchest supporters, people who defended him through all of his most egregious transgressions, freak out about his reversal on Daca. Take Iowa congressman Steve King, who tweeted last night when the AP first reported the deal. King s tweet read:  If AP is correct, Trump base is blown up, destroyed, irreparable, and disillusioned beyond repair. No promise is credible. I m sorry,  Meyers responded.  You re just figuring out that Trump s promises aren t credible now? Meyers went on:  You might be thinking, didn t Trump specifically accuse President Obama of giving undocumented immigrants amnesty when he signed Daca? But technically, he never used the word amnesty. In fact, Trump didn t use a real word at all. Meyers then showed footage from a 2016 campaign rally in which Trump promises not to give undocumented immigrants  amnity  rather than  amnesty. That s right, amnity. He probably still doesn t know what amnesty is,  Meyers quipped, before launching into an impression of the president.  I ll make a deal, but I promised no amnity during the campaign. ? Deal.  of Comedy Central also weighed in on president Trump s dealings with the Democrats. You may remember that last week President Trump made a deal with the Democrats to fund Harvey relief, raise the debt ceiling, and keep the government up and running,  Noah began.  Things that should be automatic anyway but in this presidency count as major accomplishments. And Trump got a lot of praise in the press for being bipartisan, which his press secretary made sure to talk up. Noah then showed Sarah Huckabee Sanders claiming that  this president s done more for bipartisanship in the last eight days than Obama did in eight years . Wow. One deal, now he s Mr Bipartisan,  Noah responded.  You can t call someone a philanthropist just because they toss a quarter at a homeless person. Noah continued:  Trump was so turned on by all the positive press the deal got him that last night he went out and did it again. All it took was a dinner and Trump folded to the democrats on Daca and the wall? Does anyone still think Trump is a master negotiator? Because Democrats are like: do everything we want and we ll let you watch Wheel of Fortune. And he s like, OK, I like when they spin the wheel. In fact, Trump didn t just give in to the Democrats,  Noah said.  He came out sounding like they converted him. The host then read Trump s tweet from Thursday morning, in which he asked if  anyone really wants to throw out the Dreamers . Yeah, !,  Noah said incredulously.  You, you gas-lighting shrimp tempura, ! You literally spent two years campaigning on kicking everybody out, now all of a sudden you re like,  What kind of psycho would kick everyone out? So,  and the Democrats made a deal,  the host went on.  Dreamers stay in the country and no funding for the wall in return. Everyone s happy, well, except for all the people who voted for him. Noah then showed numerous tweets from the Trump faithful rebuking the president s deal, including Ann Coulter, who just last year wrote a book called In Trump We Trust. In her tweet, Coulter asked,  At this point, who DOESN T want Trump impeached? Wow, even Ann Coulter wants Trump impeached,  Noah concluded.  Can you imagine what the new anti-Trump protests are going to look like? You re going to have Ann Coulter next to a liberal, Dreamers next to Nazis, and the Nazis are gonna be like:  Hey man, you want to use my tiki torch? 																																											