Late-night hosts on Wednesday addressed Donald Trump s speech on , , and the bipartisan deal struck yesterday to raise the . Donald Trump did more things today,   began.  For one thing, he traveled to North Dakota to talk tax reform, and by talk tax reform I mean ramble incoherently until they turned his mic off. Trump started by addressing local issues like North Dakota s current drought,  Colbert said, showing footage of Trump saying he didn t know they had droughts this far north.  And Trump compared North Dakota s current drought to what Houston s going through right now. I m going to guess that one was off script. Colbert then showed more clips from the speech, in which Trump says North Dakota has the  opposite problem  as Houston.  Then he got to the heat of the meat, the reason he was there. He laid out his tax plan,  Colbert said. In the speech Trump called for a simplification of the US tax code and asked the audiences if they d rather labels read  Made in America  or  Made in the USA . He added they should  probably pick one . Yeah, we should definitely pick one, and then the electoral college can pick the other,  Colbert joked.  He seems to think the president s job is to pick the labels that go on products. You like  Made in the USA  better? Great, I ll have my factory in China crank out a bunch of those. By far the most awkward moment, and for Trump that s a pretty high bar, was when he brought up Ivanka,  Colbert continued, referencing Trump s invitation to Ivanka to join him onstage. The president added that Ivanka said:  Daddy, can I go with you?  on the trip to North Dakota.  I like that,  Trump said. Not weird at all,  Colbert said.  All of Trump s advisers call him daddy. Sean Spicer was actually the one who started it. Colbert continued:  As Trump so sensitively mentioned, Texas is still dealing with the aftermath of , and they will be for years. Meanwhile, another hurricane, Irma, is bearing down on Florida. It s the largest Atlantic hurricane ever recorded. So Irma is a frightening and intense storm, but don t worry. President Trump is tweeting at it. The president wrote:  Watching Hurricane closely. My team, which has done, and is doing, such a good job in Texas, is already in Florida. No rest for the weary! That s a really oddly casual way to describe exhausted first responders racing to save lives,  Colbert concluded. of Comedy Central also weighed in, discussing both the impending hurricane and Trump s decision to accept a proposal by Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi to raise the debt ceiling to allocate more funding towards hurricane relief. Can I just ask a question?,  Noah began.  How many once-in-a-lifetime events is it going to take in our lifetime for everyone to admit that maybe mad-made climate change is real? Do you realize  is the most powerful Atlantic storm ever recorded. And that is exactly the sort of thing that climate science predicts: in this part of the world, warmer oceans will lead to stronger hurricanes. What is it going to take to get climate deniers to acknowledge this,  he continued.  Maybe we need Isis to help us out. Hey, Isis, I know we don t agree on stuff but can you help us out here? Maybe Isis should start taking credit for hurricanes. Every time a hurricane hits, Isis should be like,  that was us, we sent that storm to destroy America. And then Republicans will be like, that s ridiculous, you guys can t cause hurricanes. Isis will be like, who causes hurricanes? They ll be like, they re caused by climate cha- oh, man. Nicely played. Damn it. The host continued:  But before America deals with this potential disaster, it has to finish dealing with its current disaster. As you know, victims in Texas are in need of relief funding. Unfortunately, that funding has to come from the federal government. So when we woke up this morning there was a good chance that the federal government could be shutdown in a few weeks because, as usual, everyone in Washington was too busy slap-fighting each other. But then at roughly 12.30pm Eastern daylight time, a true miracle place, the thing you would never expect to happen actually happened:  made a deal,  Noah said, referring to the president s decision to raise the debt ceiling in a deal struck with congressional minority leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. I don t know about you guys, but this all feels like some crazy dream,  Noah said.  Donald Trump is working with together the democrats, and my hand is a fish? Seth Meyers, too, recapped the day s news, including Trump s cavalier tweets regarding Hurricane Irma and his comments about the possibility of military action in North Korea. President Trump broke with republicans and struck a deal with democrats on a short-term extension of the debt ceiling,  Meyers began.  And you know what that means? No, you don t. Neither do I. And this guy definitely doesn t know,  he added, showing a photo of Trump.  As Hurricane Irma hit the Caribbean this morning, president Trump tweeted,  Hurricane looks like largest ever recorded in the Atlantic. Hey man, could you try not to sound so excited?,  Meyers quipped.  It s a hurricane, not the Game of Thrones finale. Meyers went on:  Speaking about Hurricane Irma today, president trump said,  It looks like it could be something that will be not good.  When a natural disaster is bearing down on our country, it would be nice to hear from a leader who knows more words than Tarzan. Meyers then addressed the president s latest comments with regard to escalating tensions with North Korea; earlier this week, UN ambassador Nikki Haley and defense secretary James Mattis both discussed the possiblity of military action being taken to deter Kim Jong-un s nuclear capabilities. When asked today if he is considering military action against North Korea, Trump told reporters,  certainly that s not a first choice but we will see what happens,  Meyers said.  Which is scary, because Trump does t usually go with his first choice,  Meyers concluded, while showing a photo of the president with his first wife, Ivana.																																											