ld age marks a rendezvous with reality that provokes timeless questions. At the end of John le Carr s new novel, his greatest creation, George Smiley, observes that  an old spy in his dotage seeks the truth of ages .As he approaches 86, David Cornwell, AKA , still has to make a necessary rapprochement with his divided self, his past and its achievements. There are, no doubt, obscure and unreconciled regrets, obsessions and disappointments. But if you are lucky, as Cornwell has been, to retain your joie de vivre and your marbles, this final reckoning offers the resolution of an inner conflict. Le Carr  has always loved German literature, and he knows his Heidegger:  Every man is born as many men, and dies as a single one. The  legacy  of his title tells us that Le Carr  is in the posterity business. If he is playing for keeps, there are just three questions to which his dedicated readers will require an answer: what is  about? What is its deeper purpose? And where does it fit into his imposing oeuvre?There s no mistaking Le Carr s importance. The list of his published work numbers some 24 volumes which, with the exception of , his autobiography of 2016, present an impressive roll call of thrillers that date from in 1961, when Harold Macmillan was prime minister and JFK had been recently inaugurated as US president.In those far-off days, the novel of espionage seemed the perfect instrument for examining the soul of a post-imperial society. Then came George Smiley s finest hour, a sequence of novels that elevated the spy thriller into an art form   ; ; and . Few English writers of the late 20th century produced fiction to match the Le Carr  of these novels.Today, nearly 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, we would not expect Le Carr  to be writing at such a pitch. Still, with the exception of PG?Wodehouse, whom Le Carr  idolises as  the Master , the English canon has rarely seen an acclaimed novelist and popular entertainer sustain such a hot streak into old age. Cornwell/Le Carr  has been publishing for six decades and, on the evidence offered here, remains both fiercely driven and impressively commanding.Still,  has an unmistakable aura of valediction. Narrated by an old hand from  the Circus , Peter Guillam, a hard-of-hearing old man, formerly the devoted colleague and ally of his master, it describes the moment in Guillam s recent past when he finds the aftermath of a forgotten battle from Berlin in the early 1960s coming to torment his retirement.The letter   Le Carr  does not flinch from this classic device   that arrives in Guillam s coastal farm in Brittany summons the old spy to London to answer some highly troublesome questions about the long-buried treacheries surrounding an agent named Alec?Leamas.Not only do these inquiries plunge the protagonist into some of the bleakest moments of the cold war, it also connects the attentive Le Carr  reader to his youthful bestseller . Here, in fact, a writer who has always dazzled his readers with the reflecting mirrors of double- and triple-bluff, surpasses himself with the backstory to his career-defining masterpiece about a covert operation conducted against the East German Stasi.Leamas, it turns out, had a son with an East German woman. This young man, Christoph, burns with vengeful rage towards the betrayals of the forgotten  Circus . He threatens to expose the British secret service in parliament and the courts. With no Smiley about   where is he now?   the spooks must put the squeeze on Peter Guillam for the truth about Operation?Windfall.The silky interrogations of a man named  Bunny  take us into a labyrinth of ruse and counter-ruse peopled by the dramatis personae of past plots. Sinister ghosts   Bill Haydon, Percy Alleline, Toby Esterhase, Jim Prideaux and Oliver Lacon   flit through the shadowy pages of lost time. Guillam visits old haunts, and resists his interrogators as best he can in a sequence of safe houses.Not much has changed in 50 years, except that the  Circus  is now  the Box , and the spooks operate out of  Spyland Beside the Thames . In place of action, Guillam must rifle through a lot of files, the documents in the case. This, perforce, is less thrilling than the dramatic quests of Smiley s prime. Then, in the midst of this expert exposition, Guillam snaps, suddenly confessing his  outrage at having my past dug up and thrown in my face .Here Cornwell and Le Carr  become one, because I think that this raw acknowledgement of frustration and bewilderment tellingly connects the inspiration for Le Carr s latest novel with some recent difficulties in Cornwell s own life story.Although he has sometimes teased that he was doing  a sort of Tolkien job  on his brief career as a spy, the truth is that Cornwell, a complex and romantic figure, has always mined his life for his art.His dismay at the troubled gestation of (2015) is well documented. A volume that was supposed to celebrate the creative interplay between Cornwell and Le Carr  did the exact opposite. Disappointment, frustration and outrage followed. A year ago, in , Le Carr  addressed a pointed rebuke to his biographer. Now, in more subtle terms, he has conducted a darker reckoning with the demons of the past. achieves many things. Outstandingly, it is a defiant assertion of creative vigour. There had been rumours of work abandoned, a professional crisis, but in these pages there is no faltering. Le Carr s storytelling remains close to top form. True, his characters speak, as they always did, in a mandarin lingo that s as remote from the register of everyday speech as Regency dialogue. Inevitably, for a great literary imagination steeped in a compelling fantasy, there are moments of self-parody. Not all the plotting is as flawless as hitherto. Christoph s two crucial interventions into Guillam s quest stretch the limits of credibility almost to breaking point. Smiley, his old boss, who was always depicted as angsty and middle-aged, is now a passionate Europhile, approaching his centenary. Another worry: do the treacheries of cold war espionage resonate as they used to do? In the scheme of things, however, these are quibbles. Le Carr s new novel displays a grand old man of English letters conducting a masterclass in the genre he has made his own. There will be some who want to revisit the hoary debate about the character and quality of Le Carr s genius. But he remains a great contemporary writer, whose work will always be read and reread.When, in the closing pages, we once more meet George Smiley,  in red pullover and bright-yellow corduroys , for Guillam s affecting farewell, the reader will recognise, perhaps, that Cornwell is signing off with a poignant and brilliant au revoir to Le Carr , his alter ego, a writer who is with the immortals. by John le Carr  is published by Viking (?20). To order a copy for ?18.50 go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99																																											