lio Barnard is the fiercely intelligent, visually inventive and innovative film-maker who gave us the brilliant docu-hybrid  and then , an inspired interpretation of Oscar Wilde set in Bradford. Her third feature, Dark River, is never anything other than acute and sensitive, with some very good actors giving well directed performances. But for all this movie s qualities, it is a British social-realist picture in a well-understood idiom which perhaps doesn t quite give us the shock of the new that her previous films delivered. And the appearance of a shotgun early on triggers the ancient Chekhov law about what happens to a gun that is produced in Act One: we are heading to a slightly melodramatic and functional ending.Ruth Wilson is excellent as Alice, a young woman who has been earning money with seasonal work on farms. Then she receives news that her widower father has died, and she must return to the family home, a tenant farm in North Yorkshire, which her brother Joe (Mark Stanley) has let become a ruin. He has driven himself almost to a breakdown looking after their ill father and is enraged with Alice for running out on them, leaving him to do all the work. Their relationship explodes into open warfare when Alice fiercely reveals that she intends to apply to the farm s freeholder for permission to become the sole tenant, effectively in control. She believes this is what she is owed, because the awful truth is that her father abused her. And as for Joe, he has his own motives for making a counter-claim to the tenancy.Their troubled past is revealed in disturbing flashbacks, with Esme Creed-Miles and Aiden McCollough as the younger Alice and Joe, and Sean Bean as their father, like a vivid ghost, as Alice is haunted by memories of the house   particularly her own bedroom, which she cannot bear to go near. Ruth Wilson s face and body language give us access to the wounded and unhappy girl that grew up there. But as an adult, she can see how the farm is becoming increasingly unprofitable. Naturally, Joe resents her interventions; Barnard s writing and Stanley s performance show how he does not have the emotional language to express his resentment, fear and guilt in anything other than violence. And of course this violence is heading only in one direction.Their escalating confrontation is complicated by two faces of officialdom who appear on their property. One is a prissy land agent in spotless Wellington boots; the other is a breezy estate management executive who tells Joe about how certain factors could see him favoured for the tenancy over his sister. Wilson and Stanley are both excellent performers and they are the mainstays of a valuable piece of work, but I felt the ending was contrived and a bit grandiloquent. However, the visual style and fluency of the film are obvious.																																											