lly Garrett is a writer and body positivity activist who has delved into topics such as Kim Kardashian and true crime writing. She has been giving thought to the  thorny  issue of being accused of mutilating her body and reflects on the impact of the books she read just before she became a teenager. through applying it every single day since Easter. It definitely has irritated my eyes, my eyes are often red and runny and sore but I think it is worth it because my eyelashes look amazing. I ve never had good eyelashes and multiple people have thought I ve got eyelash extensions on so I m ignoring optical health recommendations and I m really happy with how they look.I m also really thrilled because I got my lips done. I recently got lip fillers and a little bit of botox in my forehead, the botox hasn t been particularly life-changing   I don t think I would get it again, maybe it s just because it s so subtle. But I am absolutely in love with the lips I have bought for myself. I think they look great. Only a handful of other women have noticed that I got them done so I don t think they look too fake   even though I really like that ducky fake lip look anyway. I have also been surprised by quite a few people I know who are into beauty, or into fun, feminist things, have commented that they re surprised I would get something done in the cosmetic surgery realm or said that they think it s akin to mutilation. I know it s a little bit of a thorny issue in terms of altering your body but I m really happy with how they look. Someone was talking to me about loving natural beauty and I think natural beauty is a sham, I don t think natural beauty exists. Unless you ve never had a shower or never had a haircut, you re not actually a natural beauty. We all do things to alter the way we look and just as soon as a needle is involved we start to get quite judgmental about it.  One of the things I loved about it is how she writes about being a fat woman. There s a few chapters in there that explicitly discuss her body and her weight and her experiences living in that body. But there s also a whole bunch of chapters that don t, that talk about her relationship with various pieces of pop culture and One Direction and Kanye West. For me, the way the book was structured and the way it talked about weight was very similar to what being a fat person is actually like. Your weight is sort of always there, your body is always there and it does shape a lot of interactions you have but it s not always something you re explicitly thinking about all the time. It s a book about her life and her body is part of that but it s also a small part of that.  It s not my day-to-day red lipstick, if I m going to wear red lipstick I actually wear a Bobbi Brown lipstick which is a bit more orange-y. Russian Red was the first lipstick I ever bought. It was from a department store in New York when I was 11 years old on a family holiday. I bought it from a beautiful make-up counter   it just seemed so exotic and grown up. I remember at the time my mum told me that it was the lipstick that Madonna wears, I felt so incredibly glamorous. I still have that tube   I don t think I will ever throw it out, which is deeply unhygienic. I think that s when reading felt its most magical. I m really nostalgic about the Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants series, I m nostalgic about the Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging series. I actually think they are the funniest books that have ever been written. They just present this picture of this teenage girl with a big nose and a gross family and all of the boys she has a crush on. They use this really unique language and lingo and all of the slang. I have a couple and sometimes I still might dip into one of those on a Sunday if I feel a bit sorry for myself. There s various dupes: Chi Chi is supposed to be just as good, but it s not, and that s my ride or die brow product. I also use the Anastasia brush, I think my brows really levelled up when I paired her number 12 brush with the Dipbrow. Her brand has been around for about 18 years and they were just this little brow salon until brows blew up and now they have highlighter palettes and eyeshadow palettes. I think her brow products are incredible. One day I would actually like to get my brows done at her studio in Beverley Hills. Kim Kardashian has had her brows done there.  but I love true crime books and I feel like every time I finish two or three of them I go back and reread Ann Rule s The Stranger Beside Me   her Ted Bundy book. I just think the story behind it, as well as her gift for true crime writing, is amazing. When she had been commissioned to write this book, she d written a couple of other crime novels and was working at a suicide helpline with Ted Bundy but we didn t know that Ted Bundy was Ted Bundy yet. The book, as well as documenting his killing and his murdering, also goes into her personal relationship with finding out it was Ted, I think that really ties into Ted Bundy s great gift for being a charming psychopath. People could have met him and known that he drove that tan Beetle, that was the Beetle picking women and girls up, but still not known it was him because he was so charming. So I think that is the pi ce de r sistance of true crime writing.																																											