magine all the world s big rock bands adrift on a leaky raft. Supplies are low. Who s shark bait? It s a scenario sadly untestable in the field, but few rock fans would conceivably pick  over more divisive arena-fillers   Red Hot Chili Peppers, say, or U2.Born from the ashes of Nirvana, but transformed into a juggernaut thanks to Dave Grohl s grasp of melodics, the Foos are a reliable group who are hard?to hate: power with tunes, good times with gravitas. For their ninth album, the first after a broken leg temporarily hobbled the irrepressible Grohl ( I feel the metal in my bones,  runs one wry lyric here), they have?enlisted pop merchant Greg Kurstin (Adele, Katy Perry, Lily Allen; more recently, Liam Gallagher, Beck) to produce.The science is simple enough: every lick gets its titanium sheen, the vocals are layered millefeuilles upon millefeuilles, and Grohl?is able to further indulge his inner singer-songwriter (as on the pretty love song Dirty Water) as well as?his anthemic thrasher (Run;  is awesome).Albums eight and seven were, in their own ways, conceptual;  is much more accessible. Such is Grohl s pulling power that he can rope in  on backing vocals, or call up his buddy Paul McCartney to play drums on Sunday Rain. You would never accuse Grohl of being a smug star, the kind who would countenance semi-retirement running a trout farm. There s still a lot of roiling going on under the affable exterior. But ninth albums from famous dudes with Beatles as jam-mates aren t known for grabbing you by the gizzards and turning you inside out.As it is here. No reinventions, no crises of faith, and   given it s 2017   no overt state-of-the-nation addresses   unless you are counting the oblique opening track, , which Grohl has said was written in reaction to the political mood (you can t really tell). La Dee Da, meanwhile, is littered with references to obscure rightwing bands. In a recent interview, Grohl was at pains to explain that the song reconnects with both his own alienated?teen self and other alienated young males he knew. You get the feeling it s loosely about the embittered?testosterone fuelling current US politics.The rest ranges far and wide: love songs, storytelling, questioning. There are chant-along tunes that start raw and become saturated, such as , whose heaviosity is leavened by angelic backing sighs. McCartney is here in spirit as well in body. Sunday Rain is highly Beatley; so is Happy Ever After (Zero Hour). Both have a dark bent.  Where is your Shangri-la now?  muses Grohl on the latter.  Happy ever after/ Counting down to zero hour/ There ain t no superheroes now. Grohl and co are on point, the tracklist has girth and depth. What lacks, perhaps, is actual concrete: fresh, modern, risky architecture, rather than Beatles tributes.																																											