Martin Shkreli, the former CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals who last month was convicted of two counts of securities fraud, has listed the sole existing copy of the Wu-Tang Clan s album Once Upon a Time in Shaolin on .Two years ago, Shkreli was revealed as the winner of an auction for the album, released in the form of a single CD. His winning bid was $2m. On Tuesday night, he put the album back up for auction on Ebay for $1; as of late Wednesday morning, the highest bid was $100,000. Shkreli, who earned the nickname  pharma bro  by jacking up prices for life-saving HIV/Aids medication and routinely making crass, sexist statements in the media, wrote on the eBay listing that he would donate half the proceeds of the album s sale to medical research.  I decided to purchase this album as a gift to the  for their tremendous musical output,  Shkreli wrote.  Instead I received scorn from at least one of their (least-intelligent) members, and the world at large failed to see my purpose of putting a serious value behind music. I will be curious to see if the world values music nearly as much as I have. I have donated to many rock bands and rappers over the years to ensure they can continue to produce their art when few others would. Shkreli once promised to release the album if Donald Trump won the presidency. But ultimately, Shkreli . Once Upon a Time in Shaolin, a double album which was recorded over six years in secret, remains the most expensive album ever sold. Shkreli, who has been called  the most hated man in America , is facing up to 20 years in prison after his conviction last month for what prosecutors described as an $11m Ponzi scheme. On top of the two convictions for securities fraud, the 34-year-old Shkreli was also convicted of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. At any time I may cancel this sale and I may even break this album in frustration,  he wrote on the eBay listing.  I will donate half of the sale proceeds to medical research. I am not selling to raise cash   my companies and I have record amounts of cash on hand. I hope someone with a bigger heart for music can be found for this one-of-a-kind piece and makes it available for the world to hear. At the time of his conviction, Shkreli s attorney Benjamin Brafman said he believed his client would get a lenient sentencing.  This was a witch-hunt of epic proportions,  Shkreli, who was found not guilty of five other crimes, said in August.  Maybe they found one or two broomsticks, but at the end of the day we have been acquitted of the most important charges. 																																											