More tormented personal development for the Pfefferman family as Jill Soloway s series returns for a fourth season. The Jewish strand of their identity is thoroughly explored this time as Maura is invited to speak at a conference in Israel and, inevitably, her family tag along to bang their heads on the Wailing Wall.A run of Philip K Dick adaptations begins with this bleak, grimy yarn starring  and Holliday Grainger. Mutant telepaths are at war with  Normals . What happens when society has too much information?More magnificently insufferable middle-management jargon-mangling as the BBC s self-satirising sitcom returns. It s charter-renewal year and the luckless Ian Fletcher (Hugh Bonneville) is back to subject himself to more agonising time in the company of Jessica Hynes s brilliantly awful Siobhan Sharpe.Jack Dee has written another comedy showcasing his own much-vaunted grumpiness. He and Kerry Godliman star as an urban couple who ve taken the rash decision to decamp to the countryside, where the wifi is intermittent and farmers  markets contain actual farmers.The taut Israeli conspiracy drama concludes in explosive fashion. The secret services are closing in but can Benny make his escape?After an intense and eventful penultimate episode, this series finale has plenty of loose ends to tie up. How will the emotions unleashed in last week s episode settle? Certain of Molly and Issa s decisions take some understanding. But what always shines through is that Insecure continues to be one of the more convincing portrayals of female friendship currently on television. Roll on season three.An abandoned but impossibly picturesque Swedish ski resort being repopulated by equally photogenic young Swedes? It s a wholesome prospect but BBC4 s new drama import is more concerned with evoking an atmosphere of unease and incipient horror. Hammer House of Hygge anyone?Promising topicality and a mixture of chat and comedy, this new showcase sounds uncannily similar to Howard s BBC venture, Russell Howard s Good News. But what will a man trading in breezy humour make of Trump, Brexit and environmental collapse?Joel Dommett is an unusual combination of quip machine and action man. This series sees him combining these attributes as he travels the world trying his hand at ancient physical challenges (this week, wrestling and archery in Mongolia) and making jokes about them.  is his notably less hands-on comedy foil.Yates s latest investigation sees him living alongside some 30,000 Syrian refugees in Iraq.																																											