n , offers what s billed as a  personal encyclopaedia of the world , addressed to his unborn fourth child. Here are, as if written daily, a series of reflections on diverse subjects with say-what-you-see titles:  Wasps ,  Plastic Bags ,  Chewing Gum ,  Labia ,  Flaubert ,  Toilet Bowls ,  Loneliness , and so on. Sixty of them, 20 per month, each month prefaced with another letter to their recipient.And it really is, I m afraid, the most colossal load of old cobblers. On the final page of the introduction   a twee little fugue, solemnly quoted in the publicity material   he declares:  I want to show you our world as it is now   you will experience things for yourself and live a life of your own, so of course it is primarily for my own sake that I am doing this: showing you the world, little one, makes my life worth living. Well, yes. Except that on the previous page, in the course of a discussion of what makes life worth living, he has declared that opening a door is the big thing:  Yes, the door opens, like a wing, and that alone makes life worth living.  Do make up your mind, you ludicrous beardy, you want to say.But, then, obviously, the question arises as to how far Knausgaard is in on the joke. A bit, perhaps   but not far enough; not by a long chalk. He strains for effect: he overstates, he generalises. On page 53, he announces:  Most of the body s interior, its organs and moist cavities, is pale in colour.  On page 73 he s considering the  reddish  colour of the lips as compared to the  white, yellowish-white, brown or black skin stretched over the rest of the face , and says the colour is  characteristic of the interior of the body . Well, it s one or the other   or neither.He ll either offer a questionable saying:  Nothing can live in airtight space, therefore nothing can die in it either.  Or he ll hymn the ineffable beauty of something   a lone plastic bag, a child blushing, a thunderstorm, a puddle of vomit, a vacuum flask (there are a lot of candidates presented for  the most beautiful thing I have ever seen ). Or he ll wonder at the limits of human knowledge.  Perhaps,  he writes;  maybe ;  I don t know.  This could be seen as properly and movingly tentative; but it reads on the page as merely arch.On teeth, he writes:  Nothing that enters the baby, mostly milk but also a little mashed banana and potato, bears the slightest resemblance to teeth, which in contrast to the food are hard. Yet this must be what happens   that certain substances are extracted from the partly liquid, partly soft nourishment and transported to the jaws, where they are assembled into the material used to make teeth. But how?  As the hip-hop duo  sung on  Miracles :  Fucking magnets: how do they work? Knausgaard has, declaredly, written these little passages in haste, day by day, taking inspiration from and in the moment. He hopes to capture, I suppose, the associative drift of consciousness   the way in which memory and emotion and habituation and happenstance meld and play off each other as a person goes through the world. He doesn t need to be consistent; only faithful to the truth of the moment.But there s a difference between cultivating that approach and simply writing the first thing that comes into your head, and I m not at all persuaded Knausgaard has clocked that such a difference exists. The result is a style of almost spoken-word looseness, replete with run-on sentences ( In nature there are no frames, all things and phenomena merge into one another, the earth is round, the universe is infinite and all time is eternal ). There are repetitions ( the child lies there on the changing table, and suddenly a shiny golden rivulet begins to trickle out of the crevice between its legs if it is a girl-child, or a shiny golden fountain-like spurt rises from the boy-child s little nozzle ), cliches ( white as snow ) and half-thought-out apothegms.Is it true, in more than a bumper-sticker way, that the spirit of an artist  rebels against conformity ? Can he be intending to make us laugh, or simply being careless, when he says that a pair of boots  fit me like a glove ? Does his mother really drive a car to work  by the sweat of her brow ? (Though these may, to be fair, be the translator s fumbles rather than the author s). At one point he earnestly announces:  Behind the lips, the teeth stand fence-like, hard and impervious, and behind this fence a grotto yawns: the mouth, the oral cavity.  Look at  yawns , there. Here is a dead metaphor disinterred and reburied in a pauper s graveyard. Of course it yawns: it s a mouth.Knausgaard is interested in the  foreign , the unknowable, the exchange between the body and the world, memory, the unnoticed strangeness of the quotidian. He seeks to re-enchant the world by making us notice afresh what we fail to see because it s so familiar.The main issue, I think, is a clash of styles. Where the writer as open floodgate might be well suited to the baggy autofiction-fleuve of his , a sort of torrential mudslide in which garlic and sapphires will float up by serendipity for the reader to admire as they pass, the snap essays here are a tighter form. He wants to be aphoristic; but aphorism requires a concentration and precision of meaning that is the opposite of the style on show. He s simply not paying attention hard enough.So the general pattern of the pieces   the swerve from a concrete image into a metaphor or memory or general statement about existence   aggregates a series of indistinguishable muzzy epiphanies. We meet animals (frogs, porpoises, adders, badgers, jellyfish) whose sense world makes them alien and thrillingly unknowable. We meet human-made objects (bags, tin cans, petrol) whose quiddity makes them stand bafflingly apart from the gestalt of nature around them. We meet natural phenomena (the sun, lightning, pain, birds of prey) whose uniqueness reinvigorates Knausgaard s sense of his consciousness in the world. But these lose their particularity as they pile up.A good comparator might be Nicholson Baker s 2003 novel . There is the same framework of a sheaf of short reflections   in Baker s case, the daily predawn ruminations of his narrator at a fire in the dark. But Baker is precise where Knausgaard is vague, funny where Knausgaard is sentimental ( little one,  he calls his daughter, and talks of  your little foot ). And Baker hits a note-perfect tone of ingenuous curiosity, quite his own, where Knausgaard more often comes across as merely fey.It s not all bad. Some of these pieces work   most often those in which he offers a specific, oblique emotional charge rather than a pontification. The voltage always goes up where his relationship with his father comes in   a memory of his father killing a snake, for instance:  he seemed to hate it more than any other thing. I had never seen him like that before, and never saw him like that again. And we do learn a bit about Knausgaard himself. We learn that he likes Juicy Fruit chewing gum, that he struggles with head lice, plays  Fingerman  (in which his first two fingers walk about the place like a little man) to amuse his children, kept his dead father s binoculars and wellington boots, learned to drive at 39 and still drives a Volkswagen Multivan, that he once wet the bed as a teenager after winning a pineapple-eating competition, prefers tinned peas to fresh, and that  is his favourite novel. If so, you would think he could have learned from the care with which Flaubert made prose.  is published by Harvill Secker. To order a copy for ?12.74 (RRP ?16.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											