n a week where up increasingly seems like down and purple is apparently orange (with Prince s sister having made an incendiary claim ), there is something reassuring about the sight of a crushed hard drive. To be more specific, the sight of a hard drive once housed in Terry Pratchett s computer, and thought to contain up to 10 unfinished novels, being, in accordance with the late author s wishes. We were left with the author s final, perhaps greatest, creative statement: that there should be no room in this world for substandard art.With news of ITV s autumn schedule dropping on the same day, it feels like a waste of a good six-and-a-half tonne steamroller for such destruction to be restricted to the creative works of the deceased. Efforts may be wasted on attempts to eradicate season 76 of The X Factor: it feels as if this curiously resilient singing contest will outlast us all, the only hint of human life 1,000 years from now consisting of a defibrillated painter-decorator singing Maroon 5 in a bombed-out conference room for the benefit of an animatronic approximation of Nicole Scherzinger. But could     Eight 21st-century lads are to be transported back to the Roman empire to see if they can cut it as gladiators    provide a good test subject?In the name of managed expectations, please understand that  has not spent its Love Island ad revenue perfecting the art of time travel. This show is pretend. It s also, necessarily, presented with tongue in cheek. This primetime  modern geezers in the time of Caesar  romp was described by executive producer Ben Kelly using the following words:  The Romans gave us roads, viaducts and basic sanitation but Bromans may prove to be their greatest legacy. Fair enough, but let us turn this on its head: let s mix it with Pratchett s own greatest legacy, and tune in on launch night to watch TV executives competing to prevent the destruction of tapes containing Bromans  first series. Then we will see how much they really believe in what they re selling.																																											