n old pictures, Liverpool s Granby Street is a bustling thoroughfare packed with shops   takeaways and launderettes, hairdressers and tailors, florists and supermarkets   all serving the lively, diverse, tightly packed community in the neat grid of Victorian streets that surrounded it.But decades of alternating clearances and government neglect have left those streets full of holes. Sections of sturdy brick terracing remain, separated by modern low-rises and patches of fenced-off ground. At its southern end, though, after decades of stubborn local activism, Granby Street is beginning to blossom again.In 2012 the residents were introduced to , a young architecture collective then mainly known for inventive installations such as Clerkenwell s , a project that transformed a petrol station into a cinema. Three years later, Assemble unexpectedly .It seems, in retrospect, an unlikely coupling, but five years on, Granby Street has become a rare beacon for thoughtful, human-scaled urban regeneration. Some of the original houses have been cleverly refurbished, while the shells of two others have been combined to form a community meeting space, caf  and indoor garden. On the streets, planters improvised from salvaged materials are painted in vivid colours, and gardens are bursting with flowers.If Assemble were your average architects (and the Granby Four Streets Community Land Trust were your average clients), that s probably where the story would end. But instead, they ploughed the Turner Prize money into the Granby Workshop, a small manufacturing enterprise which has taken over one of the street s old corner shops. The aim: to produce experimental handmade products for the home. There are a number of core principles behind the workshop products,  Assemble s Lewis Jones explains.  And one of those is that there should be an element of chance, or accident in the way things are made. So it doesn t just end up becoming incredibly boring   and that s where these products developed from. As we talk, he pulls out some samples, many of which first saw the light of day during restoration work on the first few houses. There are beautiful handles and door knobs in pale clay, barbecued with pine needles and banana skins to create smoky, scorched effects. There are mottled aggregate mantelpieces, formed from reclaimed building rubble mixed with coloured cement. There is a swathe of patterned tiles, with patterns ranging from marbled streaks to rainbow-coloured transfers.And now, thanks to their latest toy  an old, used to mould clay, lodged in a newly built outhouse   the team is launching Splatware: a series of tableware products made using traditional pottery processes in a characteristically un-traditional way. We found a cool machine, and then tried to figure out what we could do with it,  says Jones.What they do, currently, is produce a range of bowls, plates and cups in plaster moulds, made by placing clay in the kiln with different oxides pressed on top   or  squooshed , to use Jones s satisfyingly descriptive term   to produce random, rainbow-coloured results. The range will launch online with crowdfunding website Kickstarter, and make its debut at , part of the London Design Festival, from 21 24 September ().Simultaneously, back at Granby, they ll also host some tours and demonstrations.  We think it s kind of a nice thing to have,  says Granby Workshop s Sumuyya Khader.  People get to see the machine in action, and have the opportunity to be a part of it. We really want the workshop to grow and be a big neighbourhood business,  Jones agrees,  but to have a broader relationship beyond just selling products. There is a lot of general creative activity in the city. And that also fed into the way that the houses were saved   and refurbished. People didn t just protest to save the houses; they painted the empty houses, and planted the streets. It was always a very creative approach. The feeling is clearly mutual.  Everything they do is fantastic,  says long-time local resident and Trust vice-chair Hazel Tilley, poking her head in while taking some students on a workshop tour.  You ve only got to look at what they do: the love, the care, the attention. And they gave a lot of it for nothing for a long time. What we love about Assemble is, they re young, they re enthusiastic and they didn t know what they couldn t do   so they did it. We have had a bit of iffiness on Twitter and stuff, from people that say this isn t grassroots, that everyone s been brought in from London. It s a pile of shit. It couldn t be more grassroots if you tried. While Jones may well be a Londoner, he moved to Merseyside 18 months ago   and now lives 10 minutes from the workshop, with his girlfriend and three-month-old child.  The baby s Scouse,  Tilley points out, laughing delightedly.  It s nationalised! Afterwards, we go for a walk down Cairns Street, where some of the 11 houses which formed the original project have already been inhabited. The Winter Garden   incorporating the shell of two houses too far gone to save   has just had its glass roof inserted, and will open this autumn as a community meeting space, caf  and greenhouse.After touring the workshop, we visit the next battle line, Ducie Street, a half-demolished road with a grand terrace of double-fronted houses on one side, and a wildflower meadow on the other. The houses here have been empty the longest, and are in the worst condition   but their metal shutters and teetering gateposts are a riot of defiant murals. On the way back, Jones struggles to wrangle the workshop door open.  We need to get that fixed,  he says, ruefully. In all honesty, I don t know when he d find the time.																																											