n September 1967, I was 28 years old and had just been given the best job in the world: DJ on the soon-to-be-launched . London was swinging, youth culture was buzzing, and I felt I d landed at the centre of the universe.Over the next couple of years, I d play new music to millions, meet everyone from  to , and become lifelong friends with colleagues such as    despite never getting his music taste.And then, at the age of 30, I was called into a meeting, told I was too old and offered a job reading the news on . Such is life. But what a time to have been young.This picture was taken outside  at Radio 1 s launch. For the BBC, a pop station was a revolutionary idea, and I?felt honoured to be among the founding DJs. My smile says it all. Quite a few of that group became broadcasting legends   Tony Blackburn (back row, far left), Jimmy Young (next to him),  (in front of Young)   but at that point we were all in the same boat: young men setting out on an unknown adventure. I don t know if anyone stood out especially   maybe Wogan: he was always pretty peerless.Before this, I d spent three years on pirate stations. They were as fun as you d imagine. It was astonishing to think you were in a rust bucket in the middle of the North Sea, talking to yourself, yet millions of people were listening. I was on one of the boats when I heard about . A BBC producer came out to ask a few of us to audition. I?jumped at the chance. It was the BBC   and on dry land.I was the second DJ on air. Tony Blackburn first, then me with Saturday Club. I can t remember my first words, but my first record was .  were guests. It was a?good show.It was very different from the pirates. They expected a?script and demanded you rehearse. I felt we d lose our vitality and sense of fun   the reasons they wanted us in the first place. Things did loosen up, but I was yelled at when a?10-second link lasted 11 seconds:  You cannot just ignore Greenwich Mean Time, Skues! We had so many guests, it s hard to pick a favourite.  was a pleasure, and I loved . The Beatles came in to record four songs, but we had a strict slot. They took a few takes getting the first two tracks right, so we had to hurry them. Imagine rushing the Beatles!As DJs, I suppose we were semi-famous ourselves, though I was never into celebrity stuff. I remember a girl outside Broadcasting House asking for my autograph. Then she looked at me and said,  And who are you again?  That keeps you grounded.Recent revelations that some DJs abused their positions have saddened me. It shouldn t have happened. The other incongruous thing is the lack of women in that picture. I?had no control over that, but when I was a director at Sheffield s , we stipulated that a proportion of our broadcasters had to be women. That s how it should be.These days, I m back doing . I m 78, but it still gives me the same?buzz today as 50 years ago: when a?listener gets in touch and simply says they loved a record. That s what it s always been about. Are you in a notable photograph? Email?																																											