n the face of several grief manuals that have been published this year, Richard Lloyd Parry s account of the and its aftermath arrives like a ghost at the feast, its mind set not on platitudes, but on the very hardest kind of truth-telling. As he notes late on in his singular and powerfully strange book,?it is perfectly true that people can be brought together by catastrophe; they may even come to see such unhappy solidarity as a comfort. But the balance of disaster is,?he adds,  never positive .How could it be? In the villages where he spent many months talking to survivors, Lloyd Parry was struck again and again by both their fortitude and their extreme generosity. It was chastening to hear them apologise for their inability to provide him with hospitality. Nevertheless, he will not avoid the facts. Ultimately, the tsunami did to their connectedness the same thing that it did to their roads and bridges. Divided according to the measure of their loss    a spectrum of blackness  that came down to the horrible matter of what each of them had left after the water receded   they slowly fell to quarrelling, to bitterness and envy.This is not, then, a book of easy consolation. It is, as it should be, painful to read. All the same, every time I think of it, I m filled with wonderment (and, I suppose, professional envy). Lloyd Parry is such a good reporter: discreet yet unsentimental; ever-present, but able also swiftly to absent himself from the page. He never overwrites. His capacity for intimacy with relative strangers is a kind of gift. But there is something else, too. As an Englishman in , albeit one who has lived in the country for many years, he has an abiding sense of the ways in which its culture remains (to him, as to us) other, and something about this difference   the fact, perhaps, that it keeps him on the alert   works to his benefit. Here, amid all the misery, are miracles. Not once does he write a truism; the reader looks in vain for a single example of half-baked psychobabble.On that fateful morning in early March, Lloyd Parry, a foreign correspondent for the , arrived a little late at his 10th floor office in Tokyo, having made a detour to see the  paddling arms  of his soon-to-be-born son on a small screen in a hospital. Soon, he felt the vibrations that signalled an earthquake. At first, he was blase. He was used to this by now; tremors are not so unusual in Japan. But as the minutes passed, his sang-froid deserted him. Though his building, like the city around him, survived unscathed   the epicentre was far away, in the region called T hoku   it was nevertheless an extremely powerful quake: the biggest ever to have struck Japan. By the next morning, he was on his way to the ruined north-east coast where, in the tsunami that followed it, .Such a number is inconceivably vast, and the only thing to do, if one hopes to make sense of it as a writer, is to zone in on half a dozen or so individual stories. This Lloyd Parry duly does, though it s a less clinical process than I ve made it sound: in the end, it s as if he simply can t drag himself away from the Okawa primary school where 74 of its 108 students, and 10 of its 11 teachers, were drowned, or suffocated in the mud. There is a story here: some years after the tsunami, , believing that the school s staff had hesitated too long before leading them to higher ground.But what really interests and moves?Lloyd Parry is not the uncovering of lies, but the weight of the families  loss. Here is Sayomi Shito,?about to lick the dirt from the eyes of the body of her little girl, Chisato. Here is Naomi Hiratsukas, who will shortly learn how to use earth-moving equipment in the hope that she will one day find her daughter,?Koharu. And here is Hitomi Konno, now spending her days searching for ice to preserve, in the face of a backlog at the crematorium, the bodies of Mari, Rika and Daisuke.In Japan, most homes have household altars, or , on which the memorial tablets of dead ancestors   the   are displayed. The dead play a continuing role in domestic life: their descendants offer up food and prayers in exchange for which their ancestors bestow on them good fortune. The tsunami wreaked havoc on the religion of the ancestors, sweeping away these altars (some may have died because they went back to retrieve the ihai   an action akin, in their eyes, to saving a relative s life).But more than this, it left the ancestors  as helpless as that of orphaned children . With their descendants gone, who would care for them? And who would perform the necessary rituals to placate the unhappy spirits of those who had died so suddenly? No wonder T hoku, an emblematically lonely region that was once associated with goblins, suddenly swirled with ghosts. People s unreason yoked itself, in the aftermath of the tsunami, to their time-honoured culture. They were haunted, just like Fukuji in , a book of T hoku folklore that recounts the story of a man who survived the Sanriku tsunami of 1896.Lloyd Parry s accounts of the pastoral work of men such as Taio Kaneta, a local Buddhist priest, and Nagoya Kawakami, a Protestant pastor,?and in particular of the exorcisms they were required to perform in the wake of such hauntings,?make for some of the most?profoundly eloquent sections of?his book. They say so much.But in truth, he is never anything less than persuasive, whether describing the wave of anxiety, depression and alcoholism that followed the tsunami, or the way in which people s solidarity with its survivors seemed to him to be compromised by the fact that the banners they erected in public spaces read: Ganbaro T hoku! ( ganbaro , which means something close to  persevere  or  do your best  is, he writes, the kind of thing you say to a child studying for exams). It is hard to imagine a more insightful account of mass grief and its terrible processes. This book is a future classic of disaster journalism, up there with . by Richard Lloyd Parry is published by Jonathan Cape (?16.99). To order a copy for ?14.44 go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99																																											