ne of the consolations of art is that it helps us make human connections. We can see something of ourselves (and something of the artist) in a painting, novel or piece of music. We can link into a wider network of like-minded souls, holding hands across the ages, sharing truths and emotions. And that s a lovely thought. While I may feel alienated from many of my fellow citizens here in Brexitannia, I can at least comprehend something of Virgil s sorrow for Dido, Van Gogh s joy at the stars or Bruce Springsteen s desire to bust the heck out of town  The idea is appealing but Harriet Paige s debut novel makes a convincing case that this is too simple and that there can be a disparity between an artist s vision and the way we receive it.Her compelling novel begins with unusual circumstances. While out walking on the beach near his Southend home in the hot summer of 1976, a quiet, lonely council worker called Ray Eccles is struck on the head by a falling seagull. The accident is witnessed by Jennifer Mulholland, a haberdashery supervisor in a local shop, who calls an ambulance, then disappears. When Ray returns home to his small bungalow, things start getting strange. The injury was not painful but  beautiful , according to Ray, a description that stops his neighbour in her tracks:Using any materials he can get his hands on (including food, his own blood and semen), Ray begins to paint and repaint the last thing he saw before the bird hit him: Jennifer Mulholland. After a series of playfully contrived coincidences, Ray becomes famous. He is taken in (in more ways than one) by a rich art-collecting couple called George and Grace Zoob. They put him up in their plush pad and promote the pictures of Jennifer he paints compulsively. Ray becomes renowned as an outsider artist and his paintings become the subject of endless comment, all the more fervent because Ray is unable to explain what or why he paints. He just does, endlessly, drawing on walls or even skin when he has no paper.Jennifer, meanwhile, has no idea that her face has become so important, until a friend shows her a newspaper article about Ray. At first Jennifer takes it as a kind of validation and  proof that she existed . But soon her reaction becomes more complicated: does Ray really know or care about her reality at all? Similarly, those around Ray find it impossible to understand what he is doing, seeing or trying to convey. There s more to Man With a Seagull on His Head than its interesting philosophical ideas. It is funny, sharp, engagingand beautifully written. The prose is clean, unfussy and direct   but also expressive. A hot early morning is  white and dry as a blank page . An artist s model has a body so soft  it might be possible to knead it into another shape entirely .As I read, I even found myself making sympathetic, applauding noises. There were insights that felt so true and were so well expressed that I couldn t help but hum in approval. I sighed over a scene where Paige describes how Jennifer  burns  to have a child   but can t and instead has to take her husband s mother in to her house  to die . An even starker realisation about death later on in the book had me gasping. In short, Man With a Seagull really got through to me. Which is pleasingly ironic for a novel that provides such an interesting thesis about the dangers of assuming you can ever really connect with a work of art. It is a precious and strange thing. A bona fide gem. A book that would be a credit to any shortlist. 																																											