ne of the many problems with the overstuffed awards season we re now entering is that films with some element of prestige, at least on paper, are judged solely on their Oscar potential. The Mountain Between Us has been viewed from the outset as a major contender. There s the pairing of  and Idris Elba   check. The director Hany Abu-Assad, whose credits include two Oscar-nominated films   check. Based on a book   check. A premiere at the Toronto film festival   check. A fall release date   check. Oh, and a story that plays into the Academy s adoration of stories about survival   check.But entering the cinema with such lofty expectations does the film a major disservice. If judged through the lens of how Oscar-worthy it is, then it s a non-starter (which might explain some sniffy early reviews) but as an unpretentious and unashamedly mainstream romantic adventure, it s a solidly entertaining diversion, old-fashioned in its no-frills brand of storytelling and direction. Alex (Kate Winslet) is a photojournalist, on assignment for the Guardian, in a rush to get to her wedding. Ben (Idris Elba) is a surgeon in a rush to get to the operating room. But the pair find themselves grounded when a storm causes major delays and after a chance encounter, Alex hatches an unlikely plan: they will pay a local resident and charter a small aircraft over the snowy wilderness to Denver. Mid-air, tragedy strikes and their pilot has a stroke, causing them to crash. Both are injured, freezing and surviving on a small supply of ever-diminishing food. As they re forced to rely on each other to get out alive, an attraction starts to grow.There s something admirably to the point about the way The Mountain Between Us unfolds. It zips along at a tightly controlled pace and, as scripted by the About a Boy and Rogue One screenwriter Chris Weitz, the dialogue is refreshingly brisk and often quite witty. It doesn t take long for the pair to find themselves stranded and the crash that gets them there is choreographed with ferocious efficiency. Abu-Assad, known for Paradise Now and Omar, makes his English language debut here, and it might seem like a strange fit given the film s generic nature, but he handles the panicked set-pieces with ease.While the stakes are clearly high, there s something comforting about how the film avoids an overly grueling tone. It s an adventure but it s also a starry romance and there s a smooth handling of the two genres that makes it an easy, glossy ride, despite the situation. Given the fact that it s essentially a two-hander ( there s a dog as well, of course), it s all heavily reliant on the appeal of the two leads. Winslet, who tried and failed with the similar mushy throwback Labor Day, gives a committed, warm performance but it s Elba who really gets the chance to flex his often miscast movie star muscle. Despite his talents, he s been stuck in a string of thankless blockbusters from Prometheus to Pacific Rim to Star Trek: Beyond to this summer s The Dark Tower, but this is arguably his best mainstream film role to date. He s a charming romantic lead and there s a nice gender role flip-flop in the film, with his character defined as overly cautious and timid while Winslet is the reckless, adventurous type.The pair also have just about enough chemistry to make you root for them and even though the film starts to sag in the final stretch, there s an ending that works in spite of its predictability. In a film such as this, there s no room for cynicism. It s unsophisticated and hugely familiar (hardened viewers will spot the plot developments a mile off) but there s an earnest, simple satisfaction to be had, buoyed by two engaging star leads. Lower your expectations.																																											