 Right now I m in Jersey . After this interview I ll hit the track and do a nice run with my daughter and wife. In high school, my wife was a track star so she keeps me forever slim jim!Yeah, you already know it! Every 10, you get a Carnival! Of course! You can announce it now: The Return of the Perfect Gentleman. That s the working title.Actually, that song was based on a real person. I d say music resonates, no matter the year, if you base your stories on real events. The last time I spoke to Maxine was about four years ago   she went on to get into medicine.I think she s doing alternative medicine now. Some of it s in the cannabis industry, epilepsy for kids   some of it s also in the idea of different herbs for healing. Sometimes you have a headache and you don t need the aspirin because there are so many alternatives you can take. I m really into that.That was inspired by listening to Sexual Healing by Marvin Gaye. I wanted to create something more metaphorical: asking what are  going to do when you get to that place of glory? It s all about what you think the metaphor should mean. Some people would make love, others might change the world.I believe in doing both! I get asked them religiously, like they re part of a religion! It s all good, though, I have no problem answering them.Being an audio engineer. I ve been working on a new coding solution for audio.Yes. The working title is Stems. I m probably a year and a half away. I want to enhance how we hear music passed through to a stereo. My whole focus is   to come up with a coding solution that surpasses stereo for a new generation. As an audio engineer, that s what I m excited about.It was definitely incredible! I love the idea of growth. I always knew Beyonc  would be great because when Destiny s Child were opening for me on tour, every time they got off stage she would go get changed then stand at the side of the stage and watch my show like a hawk. A lot of artists perform, get changed and then leave. I knew this one was gonna be dangerous: I thought, she s not just interested in music, she wants to be a megastar. She studied the entire game.Cheese is money in that sense.Definitely. You know! Man   I do have a garden  of trees.When the Fugees are ready, I ll always be ready, know what I mean? As for Shottas Part 2, I ain t part of that but if they need me, I d be honoured. But the most important thing about this interview is that through it all, I ve basically been .Yes! If this was FaceTime you d see the funniest shit. I m in the hot sun, I m sweating, but you haven t heard me breathe hard once yet!  Thank you so much! And let all my fans in England know I m looking forward to coming soon! He means New Jersey, not the Bergerac-approved . In this extraordinary banger for the ages, stripper Maxine danced the go-go but wasn t a ho, no. She could flex in 25 positions  but I only work here to pay my tuition . The last Fugees album was The Score in 1996; Wyclef co-produced and starred in . On It Doesn t Matter, very much the 2000 pro-wrestling companion piece to Shania Twain s That Don t Impress Me Much. He is correct. Well done Wyclef.																																											