ny adaptation has to add more to its source than it subtracts. While Simon Block s stage version of the late  s celebrated 1979 TV film expands on the domestic lives of its main characters, it still feels, even in this loving production by his wife, , like a respectful homage to a great original that really belongs on the screen.In the age of satnavs, I m not sure whether London cabbies still require the encyclopaedic knowledge of the urban maze that they once did. But the play takes us back to a time when aspiring drivers had to memorise every street within a six-mile radius of Charing Cross. The main focus is on the morose, jobless Chris, driven by his ambitious girlfriend, Janet, to become a cabbie. We also follow the fortunes of the high-flying Ted, who hails from a long line of Jewish taxi drivers, and Gordon, a cowboy handyman for whom exploring the  streets is largely a chance to rat on his wife. But the story s most magnetic character is Burgess, the God-like examiner at the Public Carriage Office who holds the applicants  futures in his hands. Steven Pacey conveys perfectly well the quirky obsessiveness of a man who rejoices in his power and tends his moustache as lovingly as the Japanese bonsai tree on his desk. It is a carefully studied performance but it cannot banish the memory of Nigel Hawthorne in the TV film, whose habit of biting off hard consonants hinted at the secret sadism of a man in the grip of an id e fixe. Fabien Frankel and Alice Felgate are good as the young couple, Chris and Janet, and a reminder of a time when, for those without a pad of their own, sex could be a hazardously furtive affair. Ben Caplan as the uxorious Ted and James Alexandrou as the errant Gordon are also inherently plausible. The play retains the wit and lightness of Rosenthal s writing. He has created, in Burgess, a character whom Ben Jonson would have recognised and we see how the dogged application process required of would-be cabbies damages home lives. Yet it feels perverse to adapt to the stage a work that depends on the visible presence of London s labyrinthine streets and, in an age when the black-cab driver is no longer king, it has the aroma of a period piece.																																											