od save Judi Dench, protector of tat, defender of bad films and the imperious queen of Stephen Frears  suspect British costume drama, which screens out of competition at the . Frears  latest is a cloth-eared Gunga Din tale, painted up as a chaste romance and charting the true (but never convincing) friendship between Queen Victoria and a young Indian Muslim. It s only Dench s shrewd, affecting performance that keeps this sorry affair on its feet.Our nominal hero is Abdul Karim (Ali Fazal), plucked out of Agra to present HRH with a commemorative coin at a golden jubilee banquet. Victoria, poor soul, is deep in decrepitude, a shrunken white toadstool at the head of the table, but she perks up like a teenager when she claps eyes on Abdul. She thinks that he s handsome whereas he lives to serve, promptly grovelling on the ground in order to kiss the royal boot. So this is a match made in heaven: the flattered old monarch and her eager young lickspittle. I was left wondering how this would look if the genders were reversed: if Frears made a film about a jaded old king who takes a passing lustful fancy for some subcontinent maiden. Would that also be presented as charming, gracious and touching?Naturally it transpires that Victoria is lonely, oppressed by the royal doctor who monitors her bowel movements and the solicitous Sir Henry Ponsonby (played by the late Tim Pigott-Smith) who monitors everything else. She needs a true friend and appears to have found one in Abdul. He becomes her cherished manservant, ascends through the ranks, begins teaching her Urdu. But really, beyond the obvious, what does she see in this guy? Fazal s performance is spectacularly uninteresting, which might not be his fault   the script by Lee Hall gives him precious little to work with.Here and there we get occasional hints that Abdul is out for himself, that he s as much an ambitious operator as the other palace players. But the film moves quickly to shoot down these suggestions. More dubiously, it seems intent on casting , the bastion of empire, as some progressive outrider, railing against white racists. If Frears doesn t quite go so far as to paint her as Gandhi and Nehru come early, that may only be because the historians broke in and held a gun to his head.This director is skittish; his career jumps and troughs like a cardiogram reading. Frears has made some great films (The Grifters, Philomena, My Beautiful Laundrette) and some god-awful ones too (Lay the Favourite; Muhammad Ali s Greatest Fight). Victoria & Abdul belongs with the duds. Matters marginally improve when politics intrude on the idyll and when the scandalised courtiers start plotting the man s downfall, but it s too little, too late. What a peculiarly dodgy, conservative film this is   a lazy salute to a good queen and her faithful Indian servant. It s a film about the Raj era that looks as if it was made back then, too.																																											