Of the uncountable reality conceits that have blighted television schedules, it does seem weird that nobody has thought of this one before: putting people through the definitive physical and psychological test of astronaut selection. Among the tasks this week are simulated space-station docking and even speed origami, all overseen by former International Space Station commander Chris Hadfield. Explorer Levison Wood is an engaging mixture of courageous and curious. He s happy to camp in woods and neck vodkas by the dozen. But he s capable of negotiating the geopolitical currents of the places he visits, too. This trip is taking him across the Caucasus, through states that have barely recovered from the fall of communism. Expect a riotous travelogue punctuated by unnerving cameos from the Russian secret police. It is hard to imagine that JK Rowling s crime novels   written under her Robert Galbraith pseudonym   would have made it to TV had her cover not been blown. Tom Burke has a brooding charm as the titular detective, but some of the dialogue here is a bit boilerplate. This concluding episode begins with a flashback to the incident that saw Strike lose part of his leg, and   as they home in on Lula s killer   Robin comes under pressure. As if to cement the notion that jealousy can envelop absolutely anyone, Victoria becomes increasingly concerned that Albert s interest in female mathematician Ada Lovelace is about more than her scientific prowess. However, a greater cause for worry sweeps the palace upon the realisation that the young queen is expecting a second child. Life below stairs is equally untranquil, as superstition spreads that a ghostly presence has invaded the kitchens. As a poetic corrective to a partition that tore India apart, tonight s Prom aims to celebrate precisely the opposite: music s power to heal and to unify. There are performances from three separate classical traditions: Hindustani music from northern India, carnatic music from the south, and qawwali, devotional music from the Pakistani Sufi tradition, given much exposure in the west via the great Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. The return, for a third series, of the primary school answer to University Challenge. Susan Calman lobs questions at teams of kids, drawing on general knowledge and pop culture as well as proper educational stuff from the national curriculum. The fun part is when each school puts up a teacher for a much harsher quickfire spotlight round. Hoping to progress from this opening heat are Willow Brook from east London and, from the Caithness coast, Lybster. Even if you don t believe all pop stars are narcissists trying to fill the holes in their souls with the empty trappings of fame, the idea of celeb musicians undergoing therapy on camera sounds like a sketchy premise. Thankfully, LA-based guru Siri Sat Nam Singh is a calm, quizzical dude, capable of putting his famous clients at ease. In this illuminating session, rapper Freddie Gibbs   who was falsely accused of rape, and imprisoned for it   opens up about his personal and legal issues. The delightful and poignant conclusion to the game-changing animated trilogy tugs ever harder on the heartstrings, confronting that bittersweet time when youngsters put away childish things. When Andy heads for college, Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack) and the other toys are accidentally dispatched to the daycare centre-cum-nightmare prison. Cue a triumphant adventure about love, loyalty and a megalomaniac teddy bear. An old-fashioned, somewhat ponderous, biblical epic in the tradition of Cecil B DeMille s Ten Commandments. Christian Bale is a noble Moses, getting into a fearful family squabble with his brother, the pharaoh Ramses (a heavily eyelined Joel Edgerton) when leading his people out of Egypt. The special effects are stunning, from the parting of the Red Sea to the plagues   notably the creeping horror of the death of the firstborn. This US remake of the haunting Swedish vampire movie Let the Right One In loses some of the original s sly humour in favour of a horror fix. But with teen superstars in Kodi Smit-McPhee (of The Road) as the troubled 12-year-old boy, and Chlo? Grace Moretz (Kick-Ass) as the vampire who befriends him, the sweet, youthful emotion survives alongside the bloodlust. Stage one of eight, a 188km route from Edinburgh to Kelso.The 13th round of the season at the Autodromo Nazionale Monza. Having signed George Ford from Bath, Leicester s first match of the season should be a spicy one.																																											