ome things were familiar   the round concrete space of  is not far off the size and shape of the Royal Albert Hall s Arena, and the audience stood or sat in the middle   but this late-night programme, put together by Radio 3 s Open Ear, was not your regular Prom. It was right at home in a gallery space: you could argue that the five works were all art installations in which the concept was equally or more important than the sound.One work had been created with this specific space and occasion in mind.  s Prisma Interius V even tried to give the building itself a voice: a synthesiser on one side of the performing space processed ambient sounds gleaned from a microphone placed on a high balcony outside the Tate Modern. These spectral-sounding notes interacted with the sound of a harp and ringing, water-filled wine glasses on an opposite platform; in the middle, the strings of the  added a breath-like swell, coarse in comparison with the sine-wave sounds from either side. How much the outside noise actually affected the end result was unclear. Was it just a gimmick? Would it matter if it was?Questions such as that came up several times. Not, though, in the opener, Minutes by , a concise piece for a handful of strings in which barely-heard tones gradually took on stronger timbre and definition, the pulse strengthening, as if the music were a bird finding the rhythm it needed to take flight and disappear. The second item was a set by  who, sat in the pitch dark with a drum and a few pick-ups, created a light show in which each drum-strike or feedback loop was replicated as a beam or flash on or behind him. s Guide is also a single-idea piece. Each of the eight singers of the vocal ensemble Exaudi had learned by rote a 1968 recording of a southern Baptist hymn; they repeated fragments over and over, with all the original singer s inflections, treading a fine line between vocal interplay and cacophony. The final item had the LCO alongside the electronic musician, DJ and producer  lending physical form and textural definition to elements of his electronic soundscape   but this was really more decoration than creation. While this Prom offered plenty of food for thought, the thoughts were chewier than the music. .  end on 9 September. 																																											