On Valentine s Day 1994, hitman Lindsey Rose murdered Kerrie Pang and Fatma Ozanal in a Sydney massage parlour. Five years later he pleaded guilty to five murders in total.Campbell McConachie was just a teenager when he first met Rose six years earlier, at a pub in Sydney s inner west. He only knew snippets of his drinking buddy s various and past lives, which comprised brothel owner, drug dealer, ambulance officer, private investigator, car thief, hijacker, volunteer fire fighter   and arsonist   and mercenary. As McConachie recalls in his new book, The Fatalist:  When I first drank beer with Lindsey he d already killed three people. Oh, we had no idea. He d walk into the front bar of the Burwood Hotel and he d scan the room. To the eyes he met and knew he d nod a hello, or perhaps he d bellow it if it was late-night noisy, and if I d looked up from the form guide or the pool table I d look away and hope it was me he came to talk to. He was ebullient and he would give you his full attention. During the course of 25 visits to Goulburn s High Risk Management Unit   better known as Supermax   McConachie interviewed Rose about his life and crimes. Of their first meeting there, he describes a man who  zips his lips a couple of times when about to mention people or actions that could incriminate others. He s perfectly comfortable with who he is and what he has done and he tells me a myriad of stories, often punctuated with his infectious, wheezing laugh, his chin drawn down into his throat. But some of his stories involve the misfortune of others   his victims   and I stop myself from joining him in laughter. The Fatalist is McConachie s first book. Here, he describes the logistics and ethical quandaries of not only profiling a murderer, but giving him a microphone by printing his letters. Campbell McConachie: Yes   a concern for the victims  surviving family members. I really can t imagine the enduring grief from losing a loved one to violent murder. A homicide victims  support organisation told me that most people would prefer to be left alone and not reminded of their grief. They contacted one survivor on my behalf and, quite understandably, that person declined to be interviewed. So here I am giving Lindsey a voice   a voice he uses to set out the shortcomings of two of those victims who he believes  deserved it    when those murdered people have none. Halfway through the writing it struck me, as Janet Malcolm put it [in her book about ethics in reporting, ], that perhaps what I was doing was morally indefensible. To carry on, I convinced myself that my intentions at least were good   that some helpful insight may arise from understanding how someone can turn into a violent murderer.He was gregarious, energetic and exuded self-confidence. I was still a teenager when I first met him so in my eyes he was like the popular boy in school.I did a lot of reading on criminal psychology and psychopathy, including Robert Hare s book Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us   and his psychopathy checklist. I know what you mean about the charm and charisma   the other seminal work on psychopathy is called The Mask of Sanity for that very reason. The outward persona exuding confidence and charisma can be a mask hiding the damaged person behind. That s not to say that Lindsey is necessarily a psychopath though, and in the book I explore this uncertainty a little further.As a layperson I was only prepared to   and able to   go so far. Lindsey was a paramedic so he has some clinical foundation, and he is quite self-aware. He wrote letters to me with quite startling insights into the transformation of his attitude to the world, and I ve included some of those letters in the book.I sent him a few chapters to review along the way   mostly the stories about his upbringing and time in the ambulance service. There were certain logistical sensitivities with a lot of the other material   so much of the book he still hasn t read.Well, that s certainly part of his internal narrative: that he stood up to bullies, thought he was making the world a better place. I can see how he came to that world view, but I wouldn t say I empathise with it. I ve been careful not to editorialise   the reader is left to make up their own mind about what to feel about him.He isn t the narrator in the book   but I know what you mean. It s a good question because it was important to me to have that doubt   that perhaps all is not quite as he has said   so I ve left hints in the narrative so the reader can make up their own mind what to believe. Having said that, I think he was generally truthful, but there s that whole thing about the limitations of human memory and unconscious bias   I think we have a tendency to parse our memories through our established self-narratives rather than the other way around.His stated reason is:  The cops, the judiciary and the media all got it wrong. I thought if anyone could tell it right it would be you.  Part of the context here is that he believes he was portrayed as a hitman, whereas the reality is more complicated than that. One imagines he has other motivations.We are still on good terms. I visited him recently and we discussed the pending book launch.  I ve included your point of view,  I told him,  but I have to warn you, it does not reflect well on you.   Fair enough,  he shrugged,  I did kill five people. 																																											