or almost two decades now, comedy duo Tim (Heidecker) and Eric (Wareheim) have honed their absurdist and often gross sketch comedy. After a summer of touring and the recent 10th anniversary special of The Awesome Show, they ve become the kings of out-there alternative comedy, by way of mock infomercials, situational humor, and the occasional song-and-dance routine. The second season of Bedtime Stories, their mock-horror after-hours series on Adult Swim, returns this month to magnify the humdrum tropes of suburban American life, cementing the duo as two of comedy s most amusing satirists.EW: We re both musicians, so it s kind of going back to our roots. There s no editing and, immediately, you have a finished product. When we make Bedtime Stories it s months of preparation. But our show is a train-wreck of a live experience. That s exciting for us after slaving away at TV for so many years.TH: When we would first tour and do festivals, it was hard. You were doing what you thought was funny and sometimes people would look at you like you re an idiot. But now we re doing this for kids who were raised on our comedy. They re like,  I started watching you when I was 12 and I m 22 now.  We don t have to educate them about what we think is funny. So in some ways, it s not such a fight. They re also scared of us, so there s no heckling.TH: If someone opens their mouth I start screaming at them. It s not an interactive show.EW: We met in the dorm and our floor was mostly basketball players, a lot of big guys. And there were about four of us that looked a little different and had more of a rock n roll, hippie vibe. I myself was more an emo, hardcore dude. And we just bonded out of desperation. TH: We thought we were going to be serious filmmakers. But everyone s work was just awful and hard to watch. It would just be unbearable. Our stuff was nothing to write home about either.EW: We both loved comedy, but we also loved serious, dramatic things as well. And as any 18-year-old goes to college we quickly realized, there s no way. So we made these little shorts. We ve always been major self-promoters, even as a joke. We called ourselves TimAndEric.com and put our little videos on our website before there was YouTube. The moment where it felt like we could so something bigger was when we were in the Philadelphia film festival. [The pair s animated film] Tom Goes to the Mayor played for a couple hundred people and they were laughing really hard. We were like,  Oh shit, that s more than just our friends .EW: We love local shops and we love the idea of desperate working men, and dads having to do stuff for their families. All those themes are great. So we love keeping things grounded in that reality. These little dingy locations are fun and they help give this nice patina to the look and vibe of the story.TH: I grew up in a car dealership because my dad ran one. And in my head, in the script, it was a car dealership. You always see these guys standing around bullshitting, there s nobody coming in. So it was a car dealership for a long time and then once we started to prep, it was hard to find one and we ve got to be there for a few days, so it became really impractical. And the piano store is so much better, so much funnier, and so much more grim, because, like, how many pianos do you sell everyday? Who comes in to buy a piano?EW: We tried to keep it exactly like the old days. We hired the same friends who helped us edit and create the show, we tried to bring back the same characters, we shot it almost on the same camera. We did learn a lot of production tricks over the last ten years, how to speed things up and keep things efficient. But I feel like we nailed the vibe. My favorite comment from the fans thus far is that it is a continuation rather than a reunion.TH: Obviously our stuff is very influenced by the state of the world right now, but Eric and I from the beginning of our work together just generally reject current events more than anything because it always fades pretty quickly and other people were doing it better. That wasn t really where our common interests were. At the same time, I think our work has always been very political because it s a reflection of the culture, and a satire of it. So we re not going on about what happened in the news this week, but it s all there, the stupidity of consumerism, it s all in the work.																																											