ordan Cardy, a 21-year-old who goes by the name of , inspires the sort of fevered devotion that often seems to follow those with his initials. His fans start arriving six hours early for the launch of his debut album, Scum, gathering in the cold and damp, graffiti-covered tunnel beneath London s Waterloo station. One of the first to arrive is 16-year-old Saskia, who deftly explains Rat Boy s appeal.  He sings about being poor quite a lot, and I find that really relatable,  she says.  He s singing about things everyone our age is feeling. The list of topics covered on Scum includes: signing on, fake IDs, worrying about a third world war, getting sacked from Wetherspoons and  living off mum , Critics often compare Rat Boy to oik-rock precursors such as , the  and early Blur   both Damon Albarn and Graham Coxon appear on the record   but his fans also see more highbrow influences.  He reminds me of Salvador Dal ,  says 16-year-old Luke.  His style is always a bit weird and abstract. Rat Boy is not merely reflecting millennial fears back to his fans; he is refracting their world through a surrealist prism. Through his hand-drawn artwork, the videos he storyboards himself and the fake radio station that plays between songs on his album, he has built a Technicolor universe, populated with garish characters and brands, that is inspired as much by Grand Theft Auto, Tarantino movies and  skateboard videos as it is by indie bands.The launch is a chance to bring this fictional world to life, so in keeping with his aesthetic it s being held at a skatepark. Loitering by the ramps clutching boards are a couple more fans, Lennon and Gene Gallagher, sons of Liam, bickering as only a pair of Gallagher brothers can. While they cannot agree on who started listening to Rat Boy first, they both say his style is as important as his music.  That s what got me into him,  says 16-year-old Gene.  I didn t used to skate until I watched him, now I do. I thought:  If I want to wear the clothes, I ve got to skate. Rat Boy himself rolls into view doing skateboard tricks. He has the word  Love  freshly tattooed across his throat and is dressed head-to-toe in his own branded clothing, from his Scum socks to his baggy red Scum hoodie. Like everything else in Rat Boy s world, he designed them himself. He traces his reluctance to relinquish creative control to his childhood growing up in Chelmsford, Essex, in a home where his mum hand-painted patterns on the floorboards while his dad transformed the hunks of metal in the garden into custom cars. Our house looks mental, my dad s got 30 years  worth of clutter,  he explains.  He collects bits and pieces and then builds race cars. Maybe it s because it s cheaper, but it s also because he likes making stuff, and I do too. He first managed to get his hands on a guitar the summer after he finished primary school, and a couple of years later, aged 13, he caught the ear of Tom Pullen, a music-production teacher at Chelmer Valley High.  Jordan was the sort of kid who d get in trouble at school because he d take his acoustic guitar everywhere,  remembers Pullen.  He was on my radar straight away. I wanted to help him out because a lot of the time the kids who are grade-eight piano get all the attention, while people like him get left behind. Rat Boy had no problem filling sketchbooks with snatches of lyrics or doodles but struggled with exams. It wasn t until he was 17 that he was diagnosed with severe dyslexia.  I was quite nervous in school about writing, but now I treat it as a good thing,  he says.  I can t sit down and write a song, but I write when I m out, and I think that s why my lyrics focus on the subjects they do. As well as the usual teenage hijinks, those subjects include a string of references to Brexit, Theresa May s rise to power and entrenched social inequality.  I get inspired by what I m angry about,  he says.  You look around and see people with so much money, and people with absolutely nothing. How does that happen? Musically, he says he is  obsessed  with the production-focused hip-hop of  and Kanye West, and Lamar returned the compliment by sampling the 2015 Rat Boy track Knock Knock on his song Lust. Rat Boy, who had previously worked with that track s producer DJ Dahi, heard it for the first time when Lamar s record was released.  I don t really know much about it, all I heard was that Kendrick got played my demo and then they cut the vocal out of it,  he says.  It was fucking weird, because it was [Lamar s debut album]  that inspired me to try and tell a story through my record. The doors of the launch party swing open and Rat Boy is swarmed by members of his growing cult. They grab him for selfies in front of a wall covered with pages torn from his sketchbooks, each filled with lyrics or the gnarled faces and customised cars that appear in his videos; more ideas than could ever be captured by an album alone. It s cool not to just have a band any more,  he says.  That s kind of boring. 																																											