othing is ever enough   I couldn t create if it was!  You have to admire writer-director Darren Aronofsky s almost religious devotion to the parable-like possibilities of hyperventilating, surrealist cinema. Having caught critics  attention with the cult low-budget sci-fi oddity  and proved his gritty mettle with , Aronofsky gave us time-straddling cosmic madness in , combined ballet with metamorphic fantasy in , and conjured gigantic rock-monsters in the quasi-biblical babble-fest . Now with , a paranoid nightmare that starts out like Polanski s  and winds up closer to , he has stretched the envelope of outrageous mainstream cinema to breaking point   and beyond.We start and end in flames, with an image of a fiery face giving way to a mysterious crystal, which breathes life and light into a charred, blackened house. This is the home of Javier Bardem s  Him  (all characters are unnamed), nurtured anew by Jennifer Lawrence s devoted wife. Octagonal in shape, the house variously resembles a vast temple and a panopticon prison, with a sinister hint of the haunted lair from . It is a living presence, with a heartbeat that thrums through its walls and floorboards, umbilically linked to Lawrence s barefoot  Mother  who harbours as-yet-unrealised dreams of parenthood.Within this Edenic idyll, Bardem s jaded poet is failing to write his masterpiece   until the arrival of a mysterious stranger (Ed Harris) and his glamorous, garrulous spouse (Michelle Pfeiffer) tickles his egotistical fancy. Seemingly blind to his wife s nesting instincts, the poet revels in the adoring chaos these outsiders bring. Gradually,  s anxieties about breach of privacy turn to something closer to home invasion horror, with the narrative straying into the territory of Graham Greene s short story . And then things start getting wild at heart and crazy on top.Aronofsky has said that the first draft of  poured out of him in a five-day  fever dream  and it s tempting to review the result in similarly spontaneous fashion. Yet more than any other of Aronofsky s works, this is a film that demands distance and decompression. In the screening room I found  an increasingly exasperating experience   a claustrophobic exercise in ghastly black comedy; relentless, ridiculous, and occasionally panic-inducing. Yet give it time to settle, and the labour pains of watching  produce something that you could grow to love.The narrative can be read in any number of ways: as a -style expression of antenatal paranoia; as a war-of-the-sexes fable about older men feeding upon the support of younger women; even as a simple tale of marital breakdown. Yet there s clearly an overarching allegory here about impending eco-catastrophe and the mistreatment of Mother Earth. Aronofsky is understandably cagey about specific meanings, but he s spoken of the film as  threatened by overpopulation, climate change, poisonous politics and war. For him, this is a tale of  a woman who is asked to give and give and give until she can give nothing more .This is familiar territory for Aronofsky, who cast Russell Crowe as a fundamentalist eco-warrior in , but then left it up to Jennifer Connelly s nurturing Naameh to lend an engaging human face to his antihero s swivel-eyed ravings. Indeed, one might see  as a sister movie to  s  Father! , a revisiting of the Genesis myth with its own Cain and Abel in the shape of Domhnall and Brian Gleeson, and featuring Bardem as an insufferably smug divinity. It s certainly a tale of false messiahs, evoking the recurrent chant from the third act of  ( there s more at the door ) with the declaration that  The poet says it s everyone s house! Throughout this escalating madness, cinematographer Matthew Libatique keeps his widescreen lens close to Lawrence, peering over her shoulder, pushing into her face, capturing her singular point of view in long takes that echo Maryse Alberti s pursuit of Mickey Rourke in . This is first-person cinema, a subjective sensory experience, part waking dream, part walking nightmare. Unsurprisingly, Aronofsky cites Bu?uel s  as influential, although horror fans may find themselves recalling the insane grotesqueries of , along with the pulsating plastic realities of David Cronenberg s .As for me, the further away I get from , the closer it moves to my heart. It s a delirious, disgraceful experience   just make sure you give it space to breathe.																																											