Parents who look disappointedly at their children, glued to their phones refusing to engage with real life, would do well to remember the . For a few years, Britain was gripped by hobbyists in their garage or car, having stilted chatroom-like conversations with strangers over unused AM radio, mostly in their area but occasionally hundreds of miles away. It was basically like an early version of , but with no chance of having to look at someone s genitals.In the US, , but in the UK there was more of a social element. People talking into the abyss, waiting for a response. There would be local meet-ups where CB enthusiasts could finally put faces to muffled, interferency names. When they did, they wanted to leave a calling card so they could be identified back on the airwaves, so they would make  Eyeball cards : photocopied business cards, to be collected like .CB was dominated by impenetrable slang and code names, so these cards would often bear names like  Little Bo Peep  and  Randy Andy . The cards also told others which area you were broadcasting from, but since it was illegal to broadcast on CB radio until the early 80s, these had to be disguised.  Dyfed in Wales was  Sausage Town , Bexhill was  Foggy Town , Diss in Norfolk was  Dodge City ,  explains William Hogan in his new book, , which includes hundreds of images of the cards.Different regions adopted different styles of cards, and illustrators set up small businesses to satisfy demand. Most cards adopted a Viz-like style: Porcupine and Jinx, the code name for a romantically involved couple with a CB, had a cartoon couple with animal faces making love. Others were more literal   an enthusiast who used the handle  Snowberry  simply depicted a berry ski-ing down the mountainside   but most bore the slogan,  You have just eyeballed ...  After broadcasting on CB radios became legal, they lost much of their appeal and when mobile phones became popular, most were consigned to the attic. But the cards live on, little cardboard symbols of Britain s first social media revolution.  by William Hogan and David Titlow will be published by Four Corners Books (RRP ?14) on 15 September.																																											