Perhaps it was  who offered the definitive comment on Tobe Hooper s macabre masterpiece from 1974, . Craven called it  Mansonite  and in a spirit of dark humour he applied the adjective as much to the film s creator as the thing itself. The director had invaded our minds with this diabolically horrible film and very much moved the furniture around in our skulls.This was the nightmarish story of a man called Leatherface who wears a gruesome mask and kills people with a variety of implements including a chainsaw. Like  before, and  afterwards, the grisly, skin-crawling, skin-flaying Leatherface had been taken from the real-life story of , the 50s serial killer who made trophies out of human remains. But it is not merely that Leatherface is an implacable, irrational and essentially motiveless killer: he is part of a secret family or cult within whose enclosed society these horrendous acts have become normalised as part of an evolved ritual. The point is that the  family , so readily evoked as the benchmark of wholesome American normality, can be anything but. Families are private; families keep their own secrets; families mind their own business. In the wilderness, where outsiders are rare, where neighbours are 30 minutes  drive away, and the uniformed forces of law and order further still, this can mean a great many things.The Texas Chainsaw Massacre became a locus classicus of the censorship and screen violence debates here when it was refused a certificate by the British Board of Film Classification upon its first release, and then in the 1980s, as the era of VCR and video rental dawned, had its brief video release cancelled along with many other ultraviolent provocations such as Hooper s next film Eaten Alive (1977), Ruggero Deodato s  (1980), Wes Craven s Last House On The Left (1972)   notably    and Meir Zarchi s I Spit On Your Grave (1980). These became the much-feared, much-gloated-over  video nasties  and were refused certificates for two decades after this. But then, inevitably, the rules were relaxed and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre progressed to being a cult classic, a movie revered by new generations of directors. The masked figure became a staple of horror and of course  featured that strangely persistent trope: the final girl, the young woman who achieves a queasy, Pyrrhic victory of survival, balanced against the monster s own survival, an undiminished threat which, quite unlike any other movie genre, flavours the closing credits with that sense of non-ending, and open-ended fear and possible sequel.Tobe Hooper learned   or rather taught   a lesson which had been imbibed by other film-makers like  and belatedly by  himself. Pure low-budget horror can be a liberating challenge, and for a technically gifted director it offers the chance to unleash electrifyingly powerful forces within an audience. Another kind of film might hope, with a cleverly composed series of shots, to make its audience sigh, or laugh, or cheer or choke up with tears. A horror director, with approximately the same skillset, can get a colossally bigger payoff: a scream of horror, a yelp of fear that you will remember for the rest of your life. And a brilliant low-budget horror picture can turn huge profits, despite or because of the restrictions on distribution. The economics of horror, particularly in that era, created masterminds of genre cinema   like Tobe Hooper.As for censorship and violent movies, it has been many years since this was a hot-button issue, long since replaced by cyberbullying and grooming on social media. The most strident newspapers in the UK prefer now to pursue winnable campaigns and it has dawned us that these films are now readily available and civilisation as we know it has not come to an end. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, for all its guignol gore, actually showed less explicit horror than people imagined.Many people have ineradicable memories of first having seen The Texas Chainsaw Massacre as teenagers. I in fact saw it much later, as a student, so had maybe become a bit hardened   or liked to think so. The Tobe Hooper films which really did cause the evacuation of my living daylights were  (1981) and  (1982). Poltergeist is a brilliant, but atypical Tobe Hooper film about the ghosts in a brand new house belonging to a real estate developer. But the auteur-ist bragging rights arguably belong to Steven Spielberg who wrote and produced, and was himself in touch with the forces of B-movie darkness. The authentic slash of Hooper nastiness belongs to The Funhouse which I saw on video, and creeped me out most royally. Four attractive teens get trapped in a carnival, pursued by a horribly deformed killer. The scene in the ghost train in which one of them takes an axe to what they think is their pursuer is one of the most purely horrible, perhaps even evil things I have ever seen in a film. My callous friends all laughed heartily at it. I pretended to do the same. Perhaps I was not a natural audience for Hooper s genius. But it has only just occurred to me that my friends were pretending too.Tobe Hooper was an inheritor of that potent streak of madness that has been with us since Titus Andronicus and then the Jacobean nightmares of the English stage; he was a horror director of pure dark inspiration.																																											