Pierre Berg , who has died aged 86, was crucial to the 20th-century change in couture from a craft enterprise to an international megabusiness. His Napoleonic belief in his destiny was not focused on fashion until, at 29, he met at dinner , the fragile prodigy aged 22 who had suddenly inherited the house of Christian Dior. It was love at first conversation, about everything but fashion, so intense that Berg  forthwith left the artist , whose amanuensis he had been for years.From then on, it was all about Yves. When Saint Laurent broke down during a rough first month as an army conscript, Berg  tracked him to a military hospital, and used his formidable energy and social aptitude to gain access. He became Saint Laurent s support, suing the house of Dior for damages ( had taken Saint Laurent s job) to fund an independent YSL atelier to which Dior personnel defected.Berg  grasped that  couture was ailing, its houses  commercial ventures too tentative when demographic and economic forces were opening up markets. He persuaded, or browbeat, Saint Laurent (Berg  alternated as hard and soft cop) into ready-to-wear in 1966, a financial and critical success.Perhaps their compatibility   also combatability, given their opposite temperaments   came from outsidership. Saint Laurent was from Algeria, Berg  from the ?le d Ol ron, an offshore island in the Bay of Biscay. Both had scant formal education and dreamed of Paris. At 17, Berg  left his father, Pierre, a civil servant, and mother Christiane (nee Sicard), to make his fortune in the capital. His accounts of his rise sound like a young-man-on-the-make from a Balzac novel; he traded in old books (collecting rare volumes all his life) and at 19 founded a shortlived anarchist magazine, La Patrie Mondiale.However, Berg s gift lay in meeting persons of consequence, by contrivance or accident: he claimed that  fell out of a window on to his head, that he shared a cell with the writer  after a demo. Through Buffet he knew , through Cocteau Dior      Saint Laurent.YSL ready-to-wear was merely Berg s initial bold move; as company president, he sold its rights in 1971 for capital to invest in a different way of staging couture shows, more like rock concerts, with clothes as loss-leaders to promote licensed accessories and perfumes. (YSL made enough to buy back the rights in 1973.) Berg  made complex deals when the luxury conglomerates of today had not yet managed their first merger; in 1986 he sold 25% of YSL for enough to buy Charles of the Ritz, which owned rights to Saint Laurent perfumes and cosmetics.In 1989, the YSL group, with its Berg generated internal synergy, was the first designer house listed on the Paris Bourse, oversubscribed by 27 times. Those who got shares did exceptionally well for a while, but Berg  did better. He was fined 1m francs for insider trading, selling shares just before an announcement of plunging profits, while the pharmaceutical company Elf Sanofi paid over the market rate for the 44% of the capital held by Saint Laurent and Berg  . , still with the vestigial involvement of Saint Laurent and Berg , who did not leave as president until 2002.While together, the couple created museum-like apartments in Paris and New York, a Normandy chateau with every room named after a Proust character, a villa and . They split personally in 1976, when Saint Laurent s perma-depression veered towards drink, drugs, and seclusion, although Berg , patient with Saint Laurent despite being a prowling, growling panther, claws out, towards everyone else, kept his faith as well as the business going. They lunched daily, and Berg , who respected Saint Laurent s creativity, if not his metier (  was his description) used his arts network to promote exhibitions of Saint Laurent. Showcasing a living designer was a novelty, and Berg  went wide with it, to museums in Beijing, Moscow and New York.Berg  never ceased buzzing around the arts, owning , with weekly recitals by the best voices in town. As a lifelong socialist, albeit of the  caviar left , supporting , he refused a Mitterand cabinet post but accepted the presidency of the , in charge of the new Bastille Opera House, Palais Garnier and Salle Favart, from 1989 to 1994. There he vented even more ferocious temperament than he had in fashion,  for  too little work for too much reward , and disputing with ballet director Rudolf Nureyev over his international schedule. Leading conductors refused to enter the Bastille, senior staff escaped it; the theatres were in turmoil. Berg  delivered far fewer productions than promised, and most were failures.Mitterrand, a close friend of Berg , appointed him an officer of the National Order of Merit (1987) and he was later appointed  (2015). In 2010 he was one of the new investors who bought a controlling stake in.Berg  went through a ceremony with Saint Laurent to become legal civil partners shortly before the designer died in 2008, and after disposed of their art collections, reserving only Jardin Marjorelle as their joint memorial, with a Saint Laurent museum.This year Berg  , who survives him. Pierre Berg , businessman, born 14 November 1930; died 8 September 2017																																											