r you were finished. The pressure was extremely intense. Music was an enormous influence on both of us. Rap had come in and replaced the jazz scene to a degree; artists were using words to execute lines and phrases that normally would have been shouted out by people like Miles Davis or Eric Dolphy with their instruments. Each of us had a number of friends who were rappers and originators of the new movement that led to hip-hop. But he came to see me in Paris in 85 and I showed him this VHS of Miles playing So What with his original quintet and that immediately set him off to do an amazing drawing with trumpets and the words  whole tone and hole tone  all over it. But someone stole it.I was heartbroken when he died. I could see it coming	 in his work and in his life	 but I hoped it was just another insane way of him pushing the envelope to the extreme. The last time I saw him was at [the restaurant] Indochine; he told me	  I m all washed up in this town   nobody will show my work   nobody.  It was a few weeks before he died.	 Only Bruno Bischofberger	 his long-time gallerist	 was still behind him. The pranks	 the excessive junk habit	 the sultry indifference had turned everyone off. He said the only guy left willing to show him was Vrej Baghoomian. I said	  Wait a minute   that s the guy who s showing me! Even when I tried to tell him not to.  We both cracked up and ended up walking up to Times Square just lamenting and singing out our blues in the streets. I walked him all over town thinking I would see him again soon. But I never did.Whenever I ran into him	 he was always like	  Are you working?  He was like a mom or something	  What are you doing with your life?  I was making music at the time and we would fight about that a lot. He would say	  I did my thing with music   you re basically a slave	 especially as a black man	 there s no respect. If I get into the music industry	 I m just gonna be another nigger	 that s how it s gonna be. But as a painter	 my colleagues are Picasso	 Rauschenberg.  He was very proud to be black and very sensitive about it.What happened to us was [all about] money and race. He said	  I have to go to St Moritz to see my dealer	 he s kind of a shark but he s a good shark. Come with me	 it s your 18th birthday	 I hate leaving New York	 I ve never been to Europe. So we met Bruno [Bischofberger	 Basquiat s Swiss dealer]. We took a private jet over the Alps	 went to this dinner of Count so-and-so. It was the Iran hostage crisis at the time	 [there was] a blockade. And these people had decided to smuggle caviar out of Iran. There were salad bowls filled with Iranian caviar and people put ? litre-sized amounts of caviar on their baked potatoes while doing coke.We ended up in a conversation with one of the guys doing the coke and [he] looked at me	 just turning 18 that day	 a girl who had never shown any demonstrably great work	 and said	  You will be important for his work	 you must show him the way	 you will be instrumental  basically talking as though I should be taming this savage. And I was just like	 this party is revolting	 I wanna go home.On the way back on the plane	 he was nervous	 he drank a lot and he was held up for about two hours in customs. When he got out he just said that they questioned that he could fly in first class as a black man with dreadlocks. We kept walking and this black janitor	 pushing a broom	 like from a movie	 says to him	  What they get you for	 brother?  And [Basquiat] turned round and said to him	"  I m not your fucking brother.  And kept walking. This was the guy who would give $100 bills to any Bowery bum; any brother that talked to him he wanted to talk to them. That broke my heart."""