re you ready?  a woman shouts, sprinting up the stairs.  Ready for the madness?  Her companion yells back:  I m pumped.  Five minutes to get back to our seats and the ballgowns are necking their schooners of sauvignon blanc, the boating blazers are setting their game faces.Everybody knows the rituals of the second half of the Last Night of the Proms; but no one can be prepared for the shock of experiencing them in person. Yes, that man in a straw boater really does have a rubber duck in his left hand. It wears its own union jack hat and goes ape at the big moments. In quieter passages it merely waves a flag.Which means the duck fits in better than me, because nearly everyone is clutching some kind of territorial marker. There are plenty of European flags (they ve been giving them away outside). Most of all, though, there is the union jack: stretched across waistcoats, jutting out of breast pockets, draped over suits. Couples have come dressed in his-and-her s union flag outfits. None of this comes with even the faintest seasoning of irony. At the interval, a man in yet another boater barks up at the balcony:  This is being televised all over the world and you ve got the union jack upside down. He s right on both counts. The concert will be watched by 6,000 people in the hall, another 9 million Britons at home, and many more as far as away as Japan, Iceland and Norway. It is being heard on radios in Athens and Tallinn. It is the biggest musical event in the world   and it is the story Britain likes to tell the world about itself. It is so British,  audience members keep saying.  Very British,  murmur a trio of Taiwanese women, each wearing a pair of union flagpoles fixed to their heads like deely boppers. exactly what that Britishness is no one seems able to say, although it is evidently a co-creation between the performers and the prommers. The people who queue for hours each year to ensure a standing place in the arena take it upon themselves to act as the event s custodians.A man in a red fez tells me he came from Oxford to sleep in a doorway of the Royal Albert Hall on Thursday night to ensure he got a ticket on Friday morning that enabled him to queue again on Saturday afternoon, which meant he got to stand under the conductor s rostrum for three and a half hours. He has been doing this every year since 1987. He won t give his name but  you can use any of this material , he graciously offers. Next to him is Phil, who s been coming to every Last Night and most of each Prom season since 1992. When I ask what he does the rest of the year he looks at me like it s a trick question. Just behind them is John, bedecked in union jacks, who says they can never, ever change the programme:  It s tradition, isn t it? Well, up to a point, John. The historian  that the four key pieces that make up the evening s all-important second half ?  the Sea Songs, Land of Hope and Glory, Jerusalem and Rule, Britannia!   were only strung together for the first time in 1954, smack bang in the period between the loss of India and the fiasco of Suez. And while the prommers always had a reputation for foot-stamping boisterousness, only after the last night was televised did they start to wear  ever more outlandish clothes, and to bring their bunting and umbrellas and funny hats . This supposedly most British of traditions is of recent manufacture.. The Sea Songs and Land of Hope and Glory were both composed around the turn of the 20th century, precisely as British pre-eminence was facing eclipse by Germany and the US. Blake s Jerusalem was set to music in 1916, the darkest year of the first world war. The entire musical sequence is a postcard from a country that never existed. No harm there, except that Britain in 2017 is a country in danger of believing its own caricature and hoping the rest of the world will, too.Still, such concerns mustn t get in the way of a night of strictly organised fun. The prommers bop to the Hornpipe with as much rhythm as the audience on an old Top of the Pops. In the first half,  gave the Liebestod from Tristan und Isolde a darkness that lifts it above the usual kitsch. But it s when the great Wagnerian comes on in a helmet and shield to perform Rule, Britannia! that the audience really perks up. Much merriment is had each time a party popper goes off, an inflatable banana is held aloft or a prommer parps a horn. It amounts to an evening for people who find telethons entertaining and miss Dave Lee Travis from the Radio 1 schedules. Such folk deserve their expensive entertainment, but why it should be taken as part of the shorthand for contemporary Britain is beyond me.																																											