rie Larson s directorial debut, Unicorn Store, is a film about embracing your idiosyncrasies without letting the dull conformity of life strip you of your originality. But the film itself often takes this message too literally, with glitter-strewn whimsy taking precedence over boringly necessary little things like plot and characterization.Larson stars as the lead, Kit, a woman stuck in a rut. She s still living with her parents (the amusing double act of Joan Cusack and Bradley Whitford) and trying to make it as an artist, struggling to convince the art world to embrace her childlike paintings. When she finally decides to grow up and get a job as a temp, she starts receiving mysterious notes, inviting her to  the store . She succumbs and finds a mysterious man (Samuel L Jackson) offering her exactly what she s always wanted: a unicorn. However, there are a few important things she needs to do first ...If it all sounds insufferably twee, then at times it really is   but it s not a total misfire. Larson is a competent director and unlike other recent actor turned film-makers (step forward Ryan Gosling), she doesn t let her film drown in the aped style of others. Scenes are solidly staged and she resists the urge to overload the film with extraneous flourishes. But it s a deceptively difficult task in a debut film, and the tonal shifts become too much for her to handle. The quirky setup becomes a route into a more dramatic look at a woman struggling to progress from adolescence to adulthood. It s a surprise, given her largely drama-based background, that it s in the more serious scenes that the film truly falters.The biggest takeaway from Unicorn Store is that Larson is a skilled comic presence. She just about keeps things tolerable, even in some of the sillier moments, and makes a convincing case to be cast in more comedies. Judd Apatow recognized this, casting her in Trainwreck, and she was an excellent host of Saturday Night Live, but we need to see more of her in lighter fare. Jackson is less successful in a small role and his Mr Magorium-esque figure grates whenever he s on screen.The key messaging has been sold in other, better films many times before, and Larson s film has little more to add, disappearing from the memory as soon as the credits roll. There s also a failed attempt at romance between her character and a hardware store worker, played by the Patti Cake$ and The Get Down star Mamoudou Athie. He has presence, but his role is little more than an assistant, and it s not entirely clear why he would help her in a quest to make a stable for a unicorn, her character coming off as someone with mental health issues rather than the manic pixie dream girl the film seems to think she is. She never feels like a real person, just a collection of quirks, which is especially jarring when the film tries to aim for pathos in the misjudged final stretch.As a film-maker, Larson shows promise, and as a comic actor she shows genuine talent. With a less affected, more genuine script, Larson could star in and direct a great comedy. Unicorn Store is not it.																																											