rom Julia Donaldson s mouse who  took a stroll through the deep dark wood  to the classic Rosie s Walk, the journey is an archetype of children s literature. The Italian artist Francesca Sanna, however, who has won  prize for most exciting newcomer to children s picture book illustration, chose a rather tougher trek for her debut title: that of a mother and her two children who are fleeing a war.Sanna s The Journey opens with an ordinary family playing on a beach by the city, using images that are redolent of classic fairytales, and simple text told from a child s perspective. But  one day the war took my father , and eventually the mother takes her children away to what she tells them will be a  safe place . They face hurdles   an angry border guard, magnified to the size of a monster, turns them back; they hide in the forest; they cross the sea.  There is not much space and it rains every day, but we tell each other stories. Tales of terrible and dangerous monsters that hide beneath our boat ready to gobble us up if the boat capsizes! Speaking in London before receiving her ?5,000 award, Sanna said she was inspired by her conversations with several refugees, in particular two young girls she met in a refugee centre in Italy.  Meeting them really made me think that being a refugee is a situation you find yourself in, not who you are,  she said.  I took inspiration from the real stories of people I met around Switzerland [where she was studying for a masters ] and Italy. She didn t know, immediately, that her story would be a children s book, but when she settled on the idea of a journey, it was clear to her that the medium was perfect.  I didn t think about writing a book that is issue-based. But children are exposed to the topic   they see pictures from the news of refugees, and of the tragedies in the Mediterranean. So, the space for a discussion about this is important. Translated into 14 languages, The Journey has also been shortlisted for the CILIP Kate Greenaway medal and won the US Society of Illustrators  gold medal, the Amnesty Cilip Honour and Spain s Premi Llibreter. Sanna beat four other illustrators to take the latest award, which was established to honour the .Judge and Gruffalo illustrator Axel Scheffler said it was  the most inventive and original  of the entries.  The fear the family experiences is strongly expressed in the graphic language of the book, which is beautifully designed,  said Scheffler. Julia Eccleshare, the chair of judges, said that Sanna s words and pictures work perfectly together to tell a story that  will move all readers, whatever their age . Sanna herself said that children and adults reacted in very different ways to her story   in particular to the image of the mother weeping while her children sleep, alongside the child s thoughts that:  Mother is with us and she is never scared. For me it is important to play with what the pictures and the text can say   a picture can illustrate what the text says, but it can also do the opposite,  said Sanna.  Children explain to me here why she s scared. It s quite obvious to them that the mother is scared, that she is protecting her children.  Parents, however, have been surprised that she has revealed the mother s true feelings to children.Sanna is now planning to tackle the topic of integration for refugees in her next book.  That s a huge aspect of the topic of immigration, which I couldn t cover in The Journey,  she said.Eccleshare said that the judges were all excited to see what Sanna does next.  Over his long career, Klaus Flugge has always been ready to publish groundbreaking books, and many of those, though deemed challenging on publication    for example   are today recognised as classics. It is fitting that the prize in his name is this year going to Francesca,  she said.																																											