rom True Detective to , TV doesn t generally do nuance when tackling the sex industry. Sex workers are most often reduced to caricatures   the mute victim who exists solely to be either killed or saved, or the  happy hooker  who s chosen sex as a vocation.So it s no wonder David Simon s latest drama The Deuce, set in the New York sex industry of the 1970s, launched in the US to such rapturous acclaim this weekend. Critics praised its  clear-eyed attention to detail  and  intelligence , while Variety went so far as to call it a  worthy successor  to Simon s most famous work, the critically adored The Wire.But for all the pre-show hype about James Franco playing identical twins, The Deuce places women centre stage. And ensuring these women were not portrayed, in any way, as broken, was crucial.  The female characters are fully rounded,  says one of the show s writers, Lisa Lutz.  They might make some bad choices, they might have some terrible experiences, but they are not silent victims.  Along with novelist , in April Lutz joined The Deuce s writer s room   already populated by crime writers including [the programme s co-creator] George Pelecanos and . And this strong contingent of women, not just among the writers but the producers and directors too, goes a long way to explaining that nuanced, complex depiction of female characters.The show constantly plays with audience expectations. An early scene sees confident pimp CeCe pick the seemingly naive Lori straight off the bus from the Midwest. Taking her to his car, he attempts to dazzle her with his big city style, giving her the whole  You re in New York now baby  shtick. Far from being bowled over, she responds with a sarcastic eye-roll, snarking:  Shit CeCe   is this New York City, or did I fall off the fucking Greyhound in Cleveland? I read that scene and thought I ve got to write for this show,  says Abbott.  I loved how it took something we ve seen before   the innocent girl out of her depth in the city   and turned it on its head.  That s not to say The Deuce shies away from the tougher moments. CeCe might tolerate Lori s snappy comebacks, but his abusive treatment of the other women in his stable makes it clear that the laidback charm is little more than a facade. Similarly, when the sweet-natured Darlene smartly turns her clients  failings to her advantage   convincing one regular to pay her double because they ve watched a movie rather than had sex, meaning she s been gone twice the time   her hustle is born of desperation: she knows her violent pimp Larry won t accept her earning less or dropping her guard to be kind.  There are scenes which might be difficult to watch from a modern perspective,  says Michelle MacLaren, who directed the opening and closing episodes.  One of the first things George [Pelecanos] said to me was we want the 1971 version of this show, not the present-day one. We had to remember this is the pre-Aids era and certain things we take for granted now, attitudes towards women and sex, were not looked at as clearly in this time.  Executive producer Nina Noble, a long-time collaborator of Simon s, admits that this difference in attitudes made her unsure how the series would be received.  It s a fine line between wanting to explore the reality of the women s situations and yet also wanting to shy away from that reality,  she says.  We knew that, like The Wire, the key to success lay in the details.  Despite the writers  extensive research, talking to many sex workers, especially people who worked in that era, Noble wasn t sure how people would respond: it is a challenging watch.  The key to it is that it s never sexy or titillating. We re not trying to turn people on. It helps that in addition to being unflinching and well-researched, The Deuce also has a dark and bawdy sense of humour. In the opener, Simon and Pelecanos smartly invert another trope when Maggie Gyllenhaal s entrepreneurial Candy finds herself dealing with an overeager teenager. It s a story we re used to seeing from the male s point of view; the coming-of-age ritual gone humiliatingly wrong. Instead, The Deuce gives us a short, sharp economics lesson from Candy. This isn t five minutes in heaven, it s business   and just because a customer is easy doesn t mean he gets the chance to go again.  It s not afraid to show characters cracking jokes or being amused by the situations they find themselves in,  says Lutz.  That felt true to life, that even in terrible situations people often find something to laugh about. Abbott agrees.  We didn t want every episode to just be grim and hopeless for the women, because that would be unwatchably sad. But at the same time, if we made them all Holly Golightly s, tripping through their experiences without a care, it wouldn t work either. Most crucially, the sex is never glamourised.  Whenever a sexual transaction   one in which money changes hands   occurs, it is shot in a very matter-of-fact way,  says MacLaren.  This is a series that deals with misogyny, the objectification of women and the commodification of sex. For those themes to resonate, we had to shoot the action honestly. It is that refusal to sugarcoat the story which gives The Deuce its power   and has led to those stellar reviews.  It offers a total immersion into this complicated world in a way that is both entertaining and interesting,  says Noble. And like all of Simon s best work, it refuses to provide easy answers.  There is definitely a version of this show where there are no female writers and all the women are victims or perfect,  says Abbott.  But that show wouldn t have  in charge. 																																											