 When I was 12, I understudied the fairies in the Old Vic production of  with ,  and lots of starry people, and I was completely stage-struck. I still do more performing than writing really. but I suppose I do feel a bit like the little mouse in the story who makes up the Gruffalo and then comes face to face with the real thing. I made him up and then, suddenly, here he is in Chessington Zoo and there s a little boy with a Gruffalo backpack. It s everywhere. It s a weird feeling, but as long as I can use the Gruffalo as a?trampoline to bounce my other books about on then I m happy with that. I ve noticed that people who are incredibly sensible about practical things, like choosing a washing machine, will suddenly make some wild decision about relationships. I was always the other way round. I was a bit dreamy and disorganised, but when it came to relationships I was quite fastidious. I?wouldn t have rushed into anything.to make some money and the songwriting grew out of that. Malcolm [Donaldson, her husband] and I?used to get lots of gigs. We would be asked to sing after supper at a?dentist s dinner and I d write a song about teeth or we d perform at the Covent Garden hat fair and I d write a song about hats. It was tremendously good training for the rhyming stories I write now. I was on a safari and we saw these wildebeests and the ranger said:  The wildebeest is one of the ugly five.  And I just pricked up my ears. Ugly five? Who are they? And I immediately knew what my next story was going to be.gets this frisson and you realise you re attracted to that person. I think that s probably a more sound way than having the frisson first and then finding out you re not really compatible. Malcolm and I have been married for 45 years and I can honestly say we ve never had to work at it. a rhyming story to my grandchildren and I can t immediately see where the stress should fall. I m not saying mine are perfect, but I try my very best to make it trip off the tongue. People underestimate what a lot of crafting goes into it. [her eldest son Hamish died in 2003].  and  are both about characters getting lost, and   is about bereavement and memory. And in my book for teenagers, , there s a character who has mental illness, but is very likable, and I suppose that was a way of dealing with a lot of stuff.The Ugly FiveA World Inside a Book: Gruffalos, Dragons and other Creatures																																											