s a rule, I try to avoid blogs and books about teaching practice. They tend to be full of  strategies , whingeing about Ofsted and images of teachers with their heads on piles of marking. The problem with educational writing is the same as the problem with the profession itself, and has not changed since the 1960s, when George Dennison derided the statistics, percentages, curriculum changes:  Everything, in short, but the one true object of all this activity: the children themselves.  My book, , is a composite account, based on my experience teaching in an inner-city state school, which features many common gripes: observations, governmental interference, data obsession, the end of humanism   and, yes, marking. But I also wanted to depict the antidotes to such soulless technocracy: the joy of teaching zesty, hilarious kids; the humanity; the passing on of some infinite thing. As an English teacher, this list is unapologetically literary. An honourable mention in this context needs to go to Doris Lessing s  whose preface to its 1971 edition is a clarion call for the literary autodidact, with this lacerating assessment:  Ideally, what should be said to every child, repeatedly, throughout his or her school life is something like this:  You are in the process of being indoctrinated. We have not yet evolved a system of education that is not a system of indoctrination. We are sorry, but it is the best we can do. In 1969, George Dennison wrote about his experience setting up the First Street school on the Lower East Side in New York. This was a  free school  in its purest, libertarian sense, infused with the radical philosophies of AS Neill, John Dewey and Leo Tolstoy. Dennison and his colleagues taught 23 black, white and Puerto Rican kids   all from low-income families, many with behavioural issues   who are depicted with tenderness and humanity by a graceful and elegant writer of the American old school. The kids read, take the bus, go to a baseball game, talk trash, hang out, fight, learn and grow. This book made me want to become a teacher.Another classic of US literature, this exquisitely melancholy novel became a surprise bestseller in 2013, almost 50 years after it was written. William Stoner is a farm boy who falls in love with books and becomes an academic at the University of Missouri. Williams describes the transformational power of literature, its value in keeping the noisy world out, and the bitchy departmental infighting recognisable to all teachers. To be a teacher was to be  simply a man to whom his book is true, to whom is given a dignity of art that has little to do with his foolishness or weakness or inadequacy as a man . A touching and inspiring autobiographical novel about a classically educated West Indian (played with characteristic dignity by Sidney Poitier in the 1967 film) who comes to the East End of London to become a teacher of a class full of unruly, unmotivated  peasants . Like Dennison, Braithwaite s radical approach involves treating the kids as human beings and leading them out into the world. The kids overcome the  hateful virus  of their racism and learn to treat their teacher with respect.  Sir  encapsulates how teachers often feel:  O God, forgive me for the hateful thoughts, because I love them, these brutal, disarming bastards, I love them. Another teacher committed to education in the Latin sense (:  to lead out ). In 1930s Edinburgh, Miss Brodie   a cultish teacher from the Dead Poets school who behaves with Calvinist assurance that she has been chosen   teaches six girls art history, the classics, fascism and adultery.  Give me a girl at an impressionable age,  she boasts,  and she is mine for life .Prospero is the master of the isle who can tame nature with his  potent art . However, he suffers the frustrations and inadequacies of a teacher, as Ariel, Miranda and Caliban test his magic, his fathering skills and his colonial legacy. The latter berates him:  You taught me language, and my profit on t / Is that I learned how to curse. An inspirational portrait of the architect of , a New York school for disadvantaged kids. The book is indispensable for anyone who wants to understand how to address the deepening inequalities in our cities.  and the film , which features one of the most galling scenes about education, showing children watching the official draw to assign their school places. The lottery of life depends on being one of the lucky few sent to a school like Canada s.Here, Socrates sets out his ideal curriculum: men and women should receive the same education, consisting of the basic virtues of wisdom, courage, justice and temperance. And PE, which will help prevent illness and weakness. Philosopher-kings are given further education in  goodness : military training, 10 years of maths, further maths, astronomy and music, five years of  dialectic  training, then 15 years working as teachers, leading people out of the cave of illusion into the sunlight of knowledge. They finally graduate, at 50, with good PhDs.Robinson is the avuncular guru of creativity in schools, whose videos are some of the most popular on the web (see his  animation and TED talk ). In this book, Robinson develops his theory that the industrialised model of teaching is harmful; and that collaboration, creativity and personalised education are the only way to prepare kids for a future economy that we cannot predict.The pendulum is swinging back to  again. Christodoulou argues that the progressive, collaborative teaching practices beloved by Ofsted are devoid of content and knowledge. Facts and  drilling  must return to the classroom. This kind of education does not stifle creativity; indeed, we need restriction to flourish. Shakespeare learned Latin, Greek and history by rote, in what today would likely be considered sterile exercises of memorisation. His plays, shot through with blazing invention, are a testament to the saying  discovery favours the well-prepared mind .Forty-nine effective techniques to help new teachers create excellent classroom management. OK, it is a how-to book full of  strategies , but every department worth its salt has a copy of this lying around, so teachers can dip into it during a free period to find a whizzy plan for the next lesson. 																																											