s the audience arrive, I wait on stage in an open coffin. This is obviously rather eerie but I like listening to the people come in. With my eyes shut, it s quite restful. Thankfully I haven t fallen asleep yet. Starting the play this way is such a contrast to most roles. But then, this isn t your usual role.In , I m playing a corpse. Mrs McLeavy is her name, and she s at the centre of a bank robbery involving her son, a fellow thief, her husband and a nurse. When the play was first performed, the  insisted that a mannequin be used as the corpse, rather than casting an actor. We re presenting the play as Orton intended, .In this role, everything is done  you. Mrs McLeavy is variously dragged out of her coffin, undressed, wrapped in a sheet, left under a bed, thrown over shoulders and stuffed inside a cupboard. I thought that at that point, out of view of the audience, I d be able to go off and have a cup of tea while they get on with the play. But, no, I stay in the cupboard   although not upside down, I do manage to right myself. I m often left in the arms of these two wonderful young actors, Sam Frenchum and Calvin Demba, who play the thieves. It must be a bit like throwing your grandma around but they ve taken it very seriously, asking me after each performance how it went. Playing a corpse is challenging for me, but it affects the other actors too; it s been a learning experience for all of us. As the corpse, you need to remain completely still while the energy of the farce swirls around you. I m not so much worried about having an itch or a coughing fit   although thankfully no one s had a cold yet   but I do fear that I might react instinctively to something. The other day a handbag was thrown on the stage, hitting my leg. If it had been my head I might have reacted involuntarily and spoiled the scene. It was an absolutely ludicrous audition. The director, Michael Fentiman, picked me up in a big bear hug and I tried to be limp. We did some physical exercises and I had to fall forwards and he caught me but left it until the last minute. I just had six days to rehearse. Before I joined the rest of the cast they were using a cushion. As an older actor, I m very careful about exercising. I try to keep as limber as possible and perform a set of yoga-type exercises before each show. Afterwards, I walk home from the theatre and it s nice to stretch my legs again. Being wrapped up in the sheet is a bit of a challenge. In rehearsals, we tried a thicker sheet which left me almost hyperventilating, so we ended up using a thinner one. I ve never felt so vulnerable, especially in the scene when I m undressed. I ve never been undressed on stage before so it s doubly strange.Joe Orton was . My parents went to see Loot when it was first on, and I can still remember how shocking it was to learn about his murder in the 60s. Weirdly, this is the second time I ve played the corpse. I played Mrs McLeavy when we did a scene from the play at drama school. So you could say she s haunting me. 																																											