s well as showcasing the blandest and most tasteful three-way sex scene in history, this movie spreads an odd pall of sentimentality and period-glow nostalgia over a fascinating real-life story. DC Comics  sensational Wonder Woman character, recently , was created before the war by a former psychology professor named William Moulton Marston, his academic wife, Elizabeth, and his former student Olive Byrne, who lived together in a lovingly unconventional menage. Marston had a fascination for fetishism, bondage, dominance and the liberation that comes with ecstatic submission to a loving authority. It all went into the crypto-feminist inspiration of Wonder Woman, with her implied empowered sexuality and endless scenes in which tying up and being tied up was very important.The movie is written and directed by Angela Robinson, for whom it is evidently a passion project. Yet the passion never quite surfaces in the performances nor the action. It is as if the movie isn t quite sure how to acknowledge the obvious role of male porn in Wonder Woman s creation and popularity, nor exactly how to match this by celebrating Wonder Woman s feminist credentials. Nor does it acknowledge the fact that this superhero was, after all, aimed at kids. This creates a tone of forced sweetness and celebratory earnestness, where something more savoury would have been better. As for the relationship between William, Elizabeth and Olive, it may have been polyamorous, or it may have been a bit of unofficial alpha-male polygamy. plays Marston, who is preeningly vain in his three-piece suit, lecturing on psychology in the 1920s to a class full of simperingly submissive co-eds. His wife Elizabeth, played by Rebecca Hall, is intellectually brilliant but constricted by the sexist conventions of academe; she has to look on, wryly aware that her husband could misbehave himself with any of these acolytes if he wished. It comes to pass with a smart and beautiful student, Olive (Bella Heathcote), who is, in fact, a little more in love with Elizabeth than William. They wind up having an embarrassing PG-rated three-way on the stage of a student theatre that is staging Greek drama, of all Freudian things. The subsequent professional disgrace and firing gives William time to work (with Elizabeth and Olive as his Wonder Women, his muses-slash-collaborators-slash-domestic partners) on that delirious comic-book creation, born of passion, fire, costumes, role-play, Hellenic mythology and kinkiness. Periodically, the movie shows frames from the comic, and these absolutely pop: they are fierce, smart, funny and weird. But then we are back to the ponderous drama, which always insists on a deeply felt solemnity. The action is structured around flashbacks from evidence that Marston is giving to a glowering official committee, which is deeply disapproving of Wonder Woman and her effect on the nation s youth. There is even a scene showing kids burning  comics the way a later generation would burn Beatles  records. Marston looks on, grievingly sad at being misinterpreted and suppressed. But there appears nothing at stake: this McCarthy-ite tribunal doesn t seem to reach a conclusion, and there is no great reckoning.This is not to say the film shies away from the sexiness and gaminess in Marston s past. There is a scene in which William and Elizabeth spy on a sorority pledge initiation ritual involving Olive. It includes spanking. Hugely turned on, William begins to caress Elizabeth in the shadows and has to stop only because they might be discovered. Following scenes show them earnestly discussing how and why they found it arousing. But there is no question of them trying spanking themselves. In their quaintly conceived group-sex-hugs, the only flavour is vanilla. Weirdly, that is the flavour of the film itself.																																											