Setting cats among pigeons has long been an unofficial part of the contract for judges of the . Remember Chris Mullin s insistence on  zip along  novels, or, way back in 1992, AN Wilson s condemnation of the prize itself as  essentially trivial ?This year s flurry of fur and feathers was provoked by a tirade from  on celebrity endorsements. Some blurbs, said the veteran travel writer,  almost blackmail  readers into feeling that  you re either intellectually or morally incompetent if you don t love this book or you ve failed if you haven t understood it . Some people, he felt,  seem to earn their living   saying:  This is the most profound book of our generation. While he s right to point out that  blurbs are outrageous in certain places , it s hardly a new phenomenon. The novelist Nathan Filer confronted the issue with disarming honesty at a festival three years ago. In a , he recalled  a kindly interviewer , who hadn t had time to read his debut novel, quoting a rather better-known novelist, who had. Filer s The Shock of the Fall was  engaging, funny and inventive , the interviewer assured the audience, in the words of Joe Dunthorne.Only one problem, the scrupulous Filer pointed out:  I ve known Joe Dunthorne for many years. I think he owed me a favour.  He went on to give a rare glimpse into the dark arts of publishing, revealing that in the six months since winning the Costa book of the year, he had received 42 unsolicited proof copies of yet-to-be-published novels. With each book I receive in the post comes a letter from its publisher. They all follow the same basic template: a few pleasantries followed by three or four paragraphs explaining how the book you are holding is the most incredible, astounding, breathtaking work of literature to ever exist.   The hope,  he continued,  is that two or three recognisable names will agree with the hyperbole and quote it back to the publisher. I ve known this happen verbatim. I shan t say which book, but it s doing rather well right now, and the author quote on the cover is plucked straight from the letter that accompanied the proofs. It s not the only ruse with which publishers   and fellow writers   seek to entrap the celebrity author, as evident from an exchange on Twitter last week over an apparent endorsement by the Scottish crime writer Val McDermid.  This morning s treat in the post! Looking forward to this,  tweeted McDermid of the book in question, to the puzzlement of one follower,   Val, genuine question. If you ve not read it, why the quote on the cover?  As both McDermid and the novel s author, Benjamin Myers, were quick to point out, the quote had been lifted from a review of an earlier novel in the series.Once upon a time, a measured and intelligent blurb by a publisher s copywriter was considered quite enough puff, as publisher Chatto & Windus pointed out on Twitter a while back, uncorking a stream of good-old-days nostalgia:But we live in a celebrity age when endorsement from someone a buyer admires has come to be regarded as an essential steer through the many thousands of alternative choices in every sphere of life. One recent debut   , which just happens to be sitting on my desk   elicited encomia from four writers with a handy range of fanbases: Dinaw Mengestu, Samantha Hunt, Sam Lipsyte and Darin Strauss.  Hauntingly beautiful ,  unforgettable ,  exciting ,  hilarious  and  profound  are among the adjectives that sing from this chorus of assent.Filer s post produced some hilarious comments about the pratfalls of indiscriminate blurbing.  Probably the nadir,  wrote Chris Power,  is John Updike s for ZZ Packer s Drinking Coffee Elsewhere:  ZZ Packer tells it like it izz.  Blogger  of the multiple enthusiasms of his compatriot Sebastian Barry, writing:  My favourite, on John Banville s Ancient Light:  Could any book be better? Did it even need to be as tremendous as this? .  Essentially, Self pointed out, that added up to:  I mean, I like a good book, but this is ridiculous. So ubiquitous is the practice that it s hard to imagine any writer being immune from either the giving or receiving of extravagant praise. Perhaps Thubron is the saintly exception, capable of turning this pernicious tide. But ? It s BBC World Affairs editor John Simpson on the cover of Thubron s To a Mountain in Tibet:  I would rather read Colin Thubron than any other travel writer alive.  																																											