Several years ago my grandmother was diagnosed with Alzheimer s disease. My mother called to tell me. I don t think I really understood what it meant at the time.  is everywhere at the moment   in films like Still Alice, in books like Goodbye, Vitamin or The Night Guest, even an old episode of Criminal Minds I happened to flick on the other night. We are drawn to investigating it in the arts, I think, because it s the absolute unknowable. What is it like to feel your brain give out beneath you? Where s the final edge between the present and the past?Currently, dementia is the second-leading cause of death in Australia. Each day, 244 people are newly diagnosed and about half of all dementia patients are cared for by a loved one. These numbers are high enough to assume that all of us will know or know of someone who has the disease. My mother says the real tragedy of the illness is that a person is stripped of all the details they know about themselves and left a shell on to whichwe project our own memories of them. They are suddenly only what other people think they are. My grandmother was a woman interested in people. She was active in her local Presbyterian church, did detailed embroidery, and had that 60s notion of keeping a beautiful house and supporting your husband s endeavours. She also had a job at a time and in a place where it was considered unusual for a married woman. As she moved further into her disease, my grandfather was forced to take on her domestic duties and her personal care. Her personality changed: my once-submissive grandmother became aggressive, belligerent, and critical of her husband. My mother told me these things over the phone:  She really said that to him!  We speculated that this suppressed rage had always existed inside her and now her lack of inhibitions meant it was erupting out. We learnt later that changes of behaviour are a common symptom. She told my mother:  You know I ll always be here for you, except sometimes when I m not.  Later, she began to call my mother by her younger sister s name, Brenda. Even if you know it s going to happen you can t shake the question: how can you not know who I am?When researching Rain Birds, I uncovered countless stories of dementia. A former dancer in the US   unresponsive for weeks   recognised herself in footage from 1930 and began to laugh hysterically. A woman put her husband into care whereupon he promptly embarked on a romance with another resident because he no longer remembered his wife. A daughter created a fake medical degree certificate and mailed it to her father who had been waiting for it by the mailbox every day for months. Dementia is death by a thousand tiny deaths. It systematically dismantles a person, one memory at a time. Maybe that s why we re so afraid of the disease   it exposes the fragility of our selves. My mother thinks it makes us question what s real and who we are. Do we exist without our memories? Are we still living? After my grandmother got sick, my mother threw out all her pots and then threw all mine out as well because some studies had showed a link between ingesting aluminium and Alzheimer s. She bought a cookbook titled Healthy Eating to Reduce the Risk of Dementia and told me that some people thought the disease skipped a generation so I better start taking it seriously. We all said,  If that ever happens to me, I ll top myself first.  I later read a story about a woman who d assisted her close friend suffering from early-onset dementia to take her own life. This woman then also took her own life, leaving a note behind that explained how she was unprepared to go through the legal ramifications of assisting her friend to make the decision to find some dignity in her illness. I thought about how we would all sit around the table and contemplate what we would do if it happened to us. How stupid to think it would be as easy as just picking a time to end. That s what this disease does to you   it strips away all potential for answers or clearly defined edges and makes us grasp them even more. With Rain Birds, I hoped to show something that my mother once said   that her mother died years before she actually died.  I ll always be here for you, except for sometimes when I m not. The truth is that I was absent for almost all of my grandmother s disease. I was young and living in another state. When things grew really bad, my mother told me,  Hang on to the memories you have of her when she was well.  I think I always carried a lot of fear of seeing what Nan had become. In that way, this book was about me processing her disease   living through it when I hadn t done so in real life. My mother sent me photos of my grandmother in her last days. I could only look at them with sideways eyes, not quite straight on. She was unrecognisable. The Nan I remember was strong and solid   I get my height from her. In the end, she weighed 40kg. Unimaginable. Her eyes were often shut but when they opened there was nothing but pain and confusion. I sang Amazing Graceat her funeral. It was the same church my grandparents and my parents had been married in. My siblings and I carried her coffin out to the hearse.   																																											