 young woman stares at you through binoculars at the beginning of this exquisite selection of drawings and paintings by . She holds them firmly against her face, obscuring its upper half and casting her mouth and chin in shadow. Instead of her eyes looking back at you, a pair of glistening dark lenses protrude from her skull like the huge eyes of an inscrutable insect.It is a disconcertingly modern alienation device. Instead of being gazed at, this woman gazes: the more you look at the frills of her black and pink clothes, the more she scrutinises you. Is it a feminist statement, a conceptualist joke? This masterpiece, drawn in 1869, is at the very least a confession of the artist s unease with his own voyeurism. The tension it reveals   between the urge to look and the fear of being looked at   is a clue to the art of Degas, an enigma who hides himself in cold ecstasies of colour.In 1971, close to the end of his life, Picasso etched a filthy series of satirical portraits of Degas visiting a brothel, just to look. He portrays Degas as an obsessive voyeur. This was not a slander: Degas did create a series of voyeuristic studies of a Paris brothel in the 1870s and Picasso collected them. This exhibition reveals how close to the knuckle Picasso was. It culminates in a superbly sensual and entrancingly strange display of the uninhibited nudes Degas created late in his career.Sir William Burrell was not quite as singleminded a collector of Degas as Picasso   nor, sadly, did he own any of the great impressionist s brothel scenes   but the Glasgow shipping magnate had a very good eye for the rich variety of media Degas uses and the uncanny intensity of his vision. This free exhibition sensitively mixes treasures by Degas from the Burrell Collection in Glasgow, currently closed for refurbishment, with some of the National Gallery s choicest examples. The result is a ravishing, revealing window on Degas s inner world. critics used to talk about Degas as if he was sexless. This self-proclaimed celibate, who according to his contemporary Manet was  incapable of loving a woman , has been bowdlerised and sentimentalised so that we can think of his depictions of ballet dancers as an artistic safe space. Think again. This exhibition puts his ballet dancers next to his nudes and the comparison is unsettling. What was the difference, for Degas, in watching dance rehearsals and visiting a brothel? In both cases he was just looking, but in neither case was that voyeurism innocent.In his 1898 pastel Dancers on a Bench, he observes as performers adjust their shoes and take a rest: as one of them leans forward to hold her ankle, he coolly contemplates her cleavage. In After the Bath, a sketch in charcoal and pastel from the Burrell, he uses a fantastically chunky style to render a woman s wet hair and naked back.The chance to directly compare the carnality with which Degas depicts women having their hair brushed, or drying themselves after a bath, and the physical energy of his dancers reveals what a complex and tantalising visionary he really is. There is nothing timid or repressed about his art, but there is something transcendent and mystical in it. Degas distills so much into the experience of looking that it becomes at once erotic and sublime, a kind of religious rapture.The bodies he draws can escape gender entirely. The National Gallery s own After the Bath, Woman Drying Herself is based on a drawing of a male nude by Michelangelo. As she bends forward to towel her shoulder, we look at the line of her spine dividing her fleshy back. This is derived from one of Michelangelo s most homoerotic designs   and this exhibition shows it is far from the only Degas to do so. Flanking it are two equally sculptural studies of gender-ambiguous backs from the Burrell.Woman in a Tub looks back to Michelangelo s Crouching Boy and forward to Francis Bacon. Its nude is both male and female, athletic and frail. Huge buttocks loom out of a green bathtub that looks like a bronze dish, set against a hellish, erotic red, as if this were a wall painting from Pompeii. Degas looks and looks until he sees the essence of the human condition. What begins as voyeurism ends up seeing into the depths of what it is to be alive.																																											