So that s it.  is no longer an action movie star. His retirement from action films,  ( I m sixty-fucking-five. Audiences are eventually going to go:  Come on,  he said at the Toronto film festival), forms the conclusion of perhaps the most unlikely career jag in cinema history.It would have been unthinkable to suggest, pre-, that Liam Neeson   soulful, mournful, capital-A actor Liam Neeson from Schindler s List   would spend a decade punching people and jumping over things in an apparently ceaseless procession of generic B-movies would have been unthinkable. It would have been like suggesting that  was going to devote his life to gross-out comedy, or that  should sign up as the lead of a vampire gangster franchise called Bloodburst Hookers Extreme.And yet, viewed from this side, Neeson s action stint makes perfect sense. Although he enjoyed a four-year purple period in the 90s, during which he starred in ,  and , a retrospective glance at Neeson s filmography shows a hidden love of silliness right from the beginning. His breakout starring role in 1990 s  was a thrill precisely because he was already subverting a reputation that didn t exist yet, cutting his well-versed sincerity with moments of gonzo ridiculousness. And, honestly, you don t sign up for a  unless you inherently favour swooshing about with a glowing stick over hard-earned credibility.But even taking these unexpected turns into consideration,  still came as a shock. On paper, Bryan Mills could have been played by anyone   a Statham, a Seagal, a Van Damme   but hiring Neeson was a masterstroke. His credentials as a respected actor meant that he could sell the heck out the film s early scenes   where his primary character trait was  sadsack    to the point that you actually felt invested in his plight come the end. The film s iconic moment is the , the  particular set of skills  scene, which Neeson corralled into a virtuoso demonstration of controlled rage. Put that speech in the mouth of any other action star and it d be a mess; with Neeson it is a perfectly contained For Your Consideration package.Not all of all of Neeson s action experiments have been as successful as Taken. Far from it. Even though I watched  in the cinema, I couldn t have told you what happened in it five minutes after the credits rolled. I also paid to watch his , and I ve only just remembered that it existed.  was as generic as a film can possibly get.  felt like it was created by an algorithm to refill the world s bargain basement DVD buckets. Despite his rumoured $20 million salary,    with its infamous    represented a horrible new low. It s only right that he should decide to recalibrate his career back towards drama after such a mess.Taking this into consideration, Neeson s retirement should be celebrated. He possesses such an astonishing range of ability that it doesn t benefit anyone to confine him to such a narrow genre. In the last three years alone, he s been breathtaking in Scorsese s , heartbreaking in  and flat-out hilarious in . The fact that he ll soon be starring in Steve McQueen s  seems to signify that he s ready to show the world what an acting powerhouse he still is, and not a moment too soon.However, if nothing else, Neeson s action experiment did result in one unqualified success. If you haven t seen 2011 s , then you must. Depicted in the trailers as yet another schlocky action outing where Neeson tapes miniature vodka bottles onto his fists and punches a wolf, the film itself is an unexpectedly beautiful meditation on grief that comes out of nowhere and leaves you absolutely floored. Plus, he does actually punch a wolf with a bottle taped to his knuckles. It played to Neeson s strengths exactly. No other actor on Earth could have pulled it off. If nothing else, The Grey makes this last decade-long tangent worthwhile. If he wants to come out of retirement for a sequel, I m sure they ll let him.																																											