Soggy bottom innuendoes are to be ditched for a fresh and  modern  approach to Bake Off following the programme s move to Channel 4, a spokesman for the TV channel has said. It seems that tears are still on the menu, though. , one of the show s new presenters, has described how emotional she has found filming the new series.The comedian, who will be fronting the reality show with Noel Fielding, the Mighty Boosh comedian, has said she was unprepared for how it would affect her on a personal level, adding that she had laughed and cried  in equal measure . She also expressed her surprise at the sheer scale of the programme s production.  It seems ridiculous now but neither Noel nor I had quite prepared ourselves for how involved we would get,  she said.  We make one episode a week, so end up spending two and a half months with some of the contestants. That is long enough to feel a real sense of kinship. We laugh and cry in equal measure. Toksvig, who also hosts the BBC quiz show QI and Channel 4 s Fifteen to One, wrote in Good Housekeeping magazine that she had never experienced a show as big as Bake Off.  I knew there would be cameras; I had no idea there would be so many,  she said. I knew there would be producers; again, it was the numbers that bowled me over. There are cameras everywhere, sound operators, eagle-eyed producers, home economists fetching ingredients, runners running with all manner of things, make-up, wardrobe   I ve seen busy TV sets before but nothing like this. Toksvig and Fielding have joined the show alongside Prue Leith, who is stepping into the shoes of Mary Berry, and returning Bake Off presenter Paul Hollywood. Toksvig said that in their breaks from filming they  fall into a routine  together, with Hollywood watching sport on the TV, Leith writing a book and she and Fielding chatting.  I cannot think of a time in my life when four people have been more companionable or at ease with each other,  she added. airs on Channel 4 at 8pm on Tuesday.																																											