   classic , but with?a shocking twist   opens with the?54-year-old narrator, Victor, alone?in a Dublin pub. He doesn t share?a home with Rachel, the woman he calls his wife, but is vague about why. He feels out of place. When he says,  Good man;?thanks very much  to the guy pulling his pint, he immediately tells us  the words felt great and a bit forbidden. I hadn t earned the right to slip into the rhythm?of a middle-aged Dub. Why not? Unease grows when a former classmate who might be called?Eddie Fitzpatrick   at least that s?how Victor thinks he remembers?him   accosts him in the pub, raising uncomfortable memories?of the Christian Brothers school they went to. They re the same age and their fathers died in the?same month; people in the bar take?Fitzpatrick for Victor s brother or?his cousin.Who this man is and what he wants are questions that nag away as the novel rewinds leisurely through the previous 40 years of Victor s life. Schooldays are vicious, terrifying and strangely thrilling. When a Brother tells the 14-year-old Victor in French class that he can never resist his smile,?the repercussions from his peers are instant. Another Brother molests him   it was just once, Victor says   under the guise of teaching him a wrestling move.The progression through these episodes is not chronological. Chapters?flit around in time. So we also?know that Victor is a failed writer. The first in his family to go to university, he dropped out, seduced by his ability to get sarcastic music reviews into print, later becoming a talkshow controversialist who never got around to collecting his opinions into a book.Doyle s recreation of 1970s and 1980s Dublin is engaging in itself, even?as you re wondering what went wrong in Victor s life. Added to suspense over Fitzpatrick is the question of what happened with Rachel, an entrepreneur caterer from the posh part of town who, by the time?of  s ?present, is the star turn in Ireland s answer to .Rachel, whose altruistic sexuality saves Victor from his tortured virginity,?has the air of a fantasy woman. But the more you read , the more you wonder. Stray references to a sister and a grownup son aren t elaborated on: a hint that there s more   or perhaps less?  to Victor s story than he lets on. And from the start we know Victor isn t always honest, telling?the barman he put a fiver on Costa Rica in the World Cup but then straight away informing us he hasn t.  So you haven t read my book,  he says?to Fitzpatrick, telling us in the same breath that he hasn t actually written one.Doyle does the fun stuff so well that we suppress doubts about these white lies. But then comes the devastating and comfortless finale, in which Doyle conjures up a mind-bending narrative swerve to jolt the novel out of?everyday?realism. The gamble comes?off, as Doyle embodies Victor s buried trauma to make clear what he has lost. The moment is horrible, as it?perhaps should be, but unlike other?recent novels about sexual abuse? ?Hanya Yanagihara s  or Gabriel Tallent s    Doyle achieves his effects without resorting to explicit scenes of violence.Doyle has made clear in interviews that the passage in which a Brother remarks on his fondness for Victor s smile was based on his own experience.?There s a sense of fine margins haunting this book, an awareness of how easily a life s potential can be snuffed out. By the end, the book s title takes on the air of a?taunt, as we re left with an unutterably bleak picture of institutional abuse, entirely without hope.by Roddy Doyle is published by Jonathan Cape (?14.99). To order a copy for ?11.24 go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99																																											