Strictly is back for a 15th series, with head judge Len replaced by Wirral-born Shirley Ballas, known in dancing circles as  the Queen of Latin . She ll be flanked by Bruno, Craig and Darcy, but will she tolerate Bruno s standup judging style? Contestants including the Rev Richard Coles, Ruth Langsford and telly chef Simon Rimmer will be paired up, while last year s winner Ore Oduba will be showing them how it s done with an intimidating opening routine. It s that time, when the Royal Albert Hall turns red, white and blue, and Land of Hope and Glory rings out. Cultural politics and rousing finale aside, tonight s music includes the world premiere of Finnish composer Lotta Wenn?koski s Flounce plus Lola Montez Does the Spider Dance to mark John Adams s 70th birthday. Sakari Oramo, conducting the BBC Symphony Orchestra, manages the mayhem. Continues on BBC1 at 9pm. A classic lineup of judges, a well-loved format and the joy of the early moments when those novelty warblers outweigh the potential stars make the audition stages of X Factor worth a watch. But with the Strictly bandwagon rolling into town and threatening to cha-cha-cha all over the ratings, times are tough for Cowell and co. As the second stage of auditions starts, more hopefuls face the main man as well as Sharon Osbourne, Nicole Scherzinger and Louis Walsh. There is an opportunity to compare our Italian friend to British counterpart Cormoran Strike, as this week the Sicilian police detective investigates a similar crime to the one in The Cuckoo s Calling. A beautiful woman is found dead in the foyer of an apartment block, but all the residents claim ignorance. Getting the truth from this lot will require some finesse. Happily, il commissario is as smooth of manner as a plate of pat . Wherever he lays his chat, that s his home: Ross recently returned to the former bosom of the BBC by parking the 12th series of his ITV vehicle in the remodelled  Centre (or at least the bit of it that hasn t been turned into posh flats and a fancy club). His lineup of guests tonight include both Rag n Bone Man and a moaning gag-man (Jack Dee), plus there s a chinwag with former Westeros side-eye champ Natalie Dormer. This new series, in which kids oversee a revamp of their family car, is hosted by vlogger Ali-A and infused with smartphone culture. A fair bit of it is filmed on a handheld selfie-cam, which lends it intimacy and energy, but the conceit of the presenter receiving instant-message updates from the show s mechanic and resprayer doesn t really work. In episode one, Djim tries to make his parents  people-carrier into a supercar. Some jam with your Cream? The 60s supergroup   supposedly named because Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce and Ginger Baker were considered the  cream of the crop  of British jazz and blues   released a batch of lean, mean singles including Badge, White Room and Sunshine of Your Love. But for many, their strength lay in their interminable onstage workouts. Featuring concert footage and interviews with the trio, this tells their story. Gwyneth Paltrow plays a delightfully interfering Emma Woodhouse in this assured and funny adaptation of Jane Austen s novel. McGrath, as director and writer, wisely leaves the wit to Austen, while the relentless matchmaker Emma busily sets about arranging marriages   including that of the unfortunate orphan Harriet (Toni Collette). Encompassing Nazi Germany, the cold war and the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, this X-Men prequel is a heck of an alternative history lesson. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender are first-class acts as the pre-wheelchair Prof Xavier and embittered Magneto, who team up to confront Kevin Bacon s evil geneticist before following different paths. A somewhat sombre but superior Marvel movie. Matthews winningly extends the themes of his award-winning 2007 documentary, Beautiful Young Minds. It s the story of brilliant young mathematicians who are on the autistic spectrum and bound for the International Mathematical Olympiad. With Asa Butterfield as the troubled Nathan and Jo Yang the Chinese prodigy Zhang Mei, it all adds up to a charming and engaging drama. Day three of the series-deciding third Test at Lord s. The early season title challengers meet at the Etihad Stadium.Coverage from today s meetings.																																											