Sure, the bookers have a penchant for a certain type of earnest artist and the presenter s impish manner may drive you potty. But 25 years in, this show has racked up its share of great performances. Pleasing archival moments include a deliciously wobbly duet from Shane MacGowan and Nick Cave, an ace grime segment (mercifully free of boogie-woogie piano) and Holland telling a teenage Adele that she ll be a world star. Aww. For the last time in the current series, Nick Knowles invites two pairs of complete strangers to embark on the gameshow equivalent of a rap battle, each team stepping up to make good on their encyclopedic boasts on a series of given subjects. As ever, one team will win the opportunity to clamber up Nick s ladder of lucre, grabbing as much as ?50,000 before deciding whether to gamble those gains against another pair of opponents. Debut of a new series in which Monty Halls retraces some of the more audacious decampments from Nazi PoW camps. Tonight, the most successful mass-escape of the second world war   the breakout from Stalag XVIIID in which Australian Ralph Churches busted out more than 100 comrades. Halls follows their path through 200 miles of mountains and forests, meeting the Slovenian partisans who helped along the way. A Scooby gang of hot young Scandis romping around a remote, rustic ski lodge might sound like hygge heaven. But BBC4 s latest Swedish import is more interested in creating a mood of unsettling horror. Something awful happened at the Black Lake resort two decades ago, and those bad vibes seem to be bleeding into the present day. Can the empathetic Hanne unravel the spooky mystery before her bossy boyfriend loses it with the locals? In terms of guests, reliable chat and the odd headline-grabbing revelation, Jonathan Ross is at the top of his game in his comfy ITV chair. This week, The Great British Bake Off s Paul Hollywood and Noel Fielding pop in to talk about cakes and stuff. Over in Hollywood A-list corner, there s Jeff Bridges, Halle Berry and Julianne Moore as well as chat from Taron Egerton. Craig David provides the music, completing the something-for-everyone lineup. What goes up must eventually come down. Still, when Cassini, a Nasa spacecraft, crash-lands into Saturn this week, its life won t have been wasted. In its time, it has performed manoeuvres between Saturn s rings and vastly increased our understanding of that planet s moons and, indeed, how life is made. Now the challenge is to end its mission without contaminating the very  promise of life  it helped discover. Like fellow mod David Bowie, the diminutive dude born Mark Feld would flit like a stylish butterfly between personas   from dapper clothes horse to folkie to hippie   before eventually emerging as Marc Bolan, Prince of Glam. Here, friends, family and superfans trace his journey from Stoke Newington to stardom. So much more than the pre-punk placeholder he s sometimes considered to be, the Jeepster rocked with a capital R. Inspector Clouseau s first case features Peter Sellers in inspired form as the bungling detective, engaged in clumsy cat-and-mousery with debonair thief David Niven for possession of the legendary Pink Panther diamond. Twitchy police chief Herbert Lom is another sparkling facet of a sometimes pasty comedy. A deliriously off-the-wall horror-drama from Aronofsky. Natalie Portman is painfully intense as ballerina Nina, who is chosen to play Odette/Odile in Swan Lake. Overbearing director Vincent Cassel insists she must find her dark, sexual inner self in order to play the evil Black Swan, leading to a spectacular breakdown, in which reality and fantasy merge horribly. This portrait of the artist as an old man stars the imposing Michel Bouquet as the great, arthritis-stricken Pierre-Auguste Renoir, whose quiet life in the idyllic French Riviera town of Cagnes-sur-Mer is interrupted by the arrival of beautiful young model Andr e (Christa Theret). He is entranced, as is his son Jean (Vincent Rottiers) who becomes her lover. It s a sombre affair, but gorgeously shot by cinematographer Ping Bin Lee.  Coverage of group-stage matches from Motorpoint Arena in Cardiff. 1.15pm, BBC1Tigers seek their first win of the season at Welford Road. 2.30pm, BT Sport 2 Spurs welcome Swansea to their temporary Wembley home. 5pm, BT Sport 1																																											