t is sometimes said that those at the lower end of politics are often more acute observers than those who occupy the commanding heights. A touch of self-deprecation and a sense of humour also help. John O Farrell has these qualities in spades. And as he would be the first to concede, you can t get much further down the political pecking order than O Farrell. After decades as a humble footsoldier in the army of Labour, his political career peaked as a candidate in a long forgotten byelection where he came in fourth, behind . Oh yes, and he , his hometown, where he was also duly smashed.Yet, for all that, he is better known than many who have sat in Labour cabinets. He has dined with the prime minister at Chequers, has been invited to drinks in Downing Street, and top politicians have sought his advice on content of key speeches. O Farrell was propelled into the political limelight by his first book, , a very amusing memoir of life as a lowly Labour activist during the dark days of the Thatcher supremacy, which in 1998 spent weeks at the top of the non-fiction bestseller list. Since then his books have been translated into 25 languages, while he has written for comedy programmes such as  and  and even co-authored a Broadway musical. (note the question mark this time) is the sequel, offering our hero s experience of the rollercoaster ride during the 20 years from the glorious night of the  to the  and the , concluding with the glimmer of hope afforded by the surprising outcome of the .First, however, like many who spent the 80s and early 90s engaged in the politics of protest, he had to come to terms with the compromises and disappointments of office. As he says,  satire is easier under the Tories . He writes:  One of the secrets of the right is that they are more comfortable with power; being in control comes to Tories as naturally as inconsiderate parking or talking too loudly in restaurants. But from the moment  came to power it became clear to me that there is a significant section of the left who   would rather snipe from the sidelines than do the difficult bit of actually effecting change themselves. He also had to learn to take responsibility. For years, O Farrell led a campaign for a new secondary school in Lambeth. No sooner was his wish granted than the difficulties began. The government would make the money available only if the new school was an academy   and a Christian one at that. O Farrell found himself grappling not only with irate residents who didn t want any kind of school in their backyard but also fellow campaigners who would rather no school than one with a religious ethos. Once the new school was up and running, he was asked to be chair of governors. It wasn t all plain sailing, but he remained in office for 12 years, steering the school through several crises and playing a leading role in a project that has transformed the life chances of some of?Lambeth s poorest children. A substantial achievement. The author is no longer just a serial protester and piss-taker. He is a man who gets things done.Even so, he can t resist a lost cause. In 2001, he decides to run for parliament in the Tory stronghold of Maidenhead, the town in which his parents still live.  There are many ways to have a mid-life crisis,  he writes.  Mine was to go back to my home town and then be rejected en masse by the people I grew up with.  Actually, it was great fun. His dad turned up to every public meeting and asked embarrassing questions. The BBC made him the subject of a documentary in which he was depicted canvassing on the Thames in an ugly little dinghy, handing out Labour leaflets to people on ?100,000 yachts with names like Just a Whim. No one is more surprised than he when his Tory opponent,  ( competent ,  polite ,  diligent     I could picture her as headmistress of a small independent girls  school in Surrey ), ends up prime minister.O Farrell is not a Corbynista. Of  s ascent he writes:  I was really depressed. I didn t dislike Corbyn personally or disrespect him or think he was insincere, it just felt like my student daughter had married a very unsuitable older man   all I could do is hope I was completely wrong.  As it turned out he was wrong (like many of us), although in the long term the jury is still out.In the 2017 election campaign O Farrell, an ardent pro-remainer, had another little dilemma to grapple with. He had the bad luck to be living in the constituency of , one of only a handful of Labour MPs who were Brexiters. Through his letter box each week came Lib-Dem leaflets depicting . What to do? Does he follow the example of his wife and tear up his Labour party card or does he soldier on? In the end, he sticks with Labour.  I am married to the Labour party for better or worse, in sickness and health, in Kinnock and in Blair. And sometimes they drive me mad, and I feel embarrassed and ashamed, but much more often I feel proud.  As for Hoey,  she s that auntie in Kettering who got crossed off the Christmas card list; she s my nutty cousin who got drunk at the wedding and took a swing at the vicar, but she is still related (twice removed, maybe) .Sequels often disappoint, but O Farrell hasn t lost his touch. There are laughs as well as large doses of common sense. How could it be otherwise from the man who, in the?words of Alan Johnson (another political figure with a?light touch), is  Maidenhead s finest political brain ? Chris Mullin s memoir  is published by Profile.  is published by Doubleday. To order a copy for ?14.44 (RRP ?16.99)  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											