t sounds just charming: a long look at all the feathered friends flitting around our back gardens. Yet the cosy material in Natural Selection, an exhibition by father and son duo Andy and Peter Holden, turns out to have more drama than Hitchcock s The , rife with dastardly tales of a criminal underworld, obsession and class conflict.The project, commissioned by public art powerhouse Artangel and sited within London s former Newington Library, takes as its jumping-off point A Natural History of Nest Building, a three-screen film essay presented by artist Andy and his ornithologist father Peter.Sporting a cravat, Peter has the measured tones of a man comfortable on camera: as  the bird man  on Blue Peter and co-presenter with Bill Oddie on Bird in the Nest, he introduced generations of children, including his son, to the wonders of birds. In a faded brown tie and jacket and nerd glasses that look back to his dad s heyday, Andy on the other hand is nervy, his delivery fast-paced and unpolished.What of the birds? The pair relate fascinating stories, from the cuckoo s parasitic tactics to birds that lay eggs straight on to cliff edges. Holden junior is particularly interested in how nest-building relates to art-making. Do birds create their intricate constructions because instinct tells them to drop moss on twigs, or do they have a vision of their home in mind, suggesting a higher consciousness? Consider the Australian bowerbird, unique in fashioning an inverted arch of sticks purely for displaying the objects it collects, like  a set for a performance . Andy has constructed a massive version of one in the gallery. Meanwhile, bird behaviours become pronounced metaphors for the creative process, like the osprey, whose nests resemble vast balls of tangled wool, sites they return to again and again and build up over the years. Andy s breakout 2010 work comes to mind, a knitted boulder that upscaled a chip of a pyramid he had  stolen  as a child, into an ingenious analogy for the comic distortions of memory and guilt.This is Andy s typical modus operandi: starting small with something from his own life, then exploding it outward into a twisty nest of ideas. Sophistication is balanced by self-exposure, embarrassment even. Natural Selection s inspiration he tells us, was a blackbird nest discovered when he moved back to live with his parents.The artist first started collaborating with his dad on bird-themed art performances in 2011. But, as diverting as these nest-building accounts are, it s in the library s low-lit basement   where another father and son, Richard and Henry Cuming, once stored their natural history collection   that the plot thickens. Here an eerie CGI-animated blackbird with Andy s voice relates the history of egg-collecting. Beginning with Victorian aristocrats hell-bent on cataloguing nature, through to the 21st century s outlaw nest robbers, it s a narrative peppered with police chases, undercover detectives and secret societies.Egg collectors aren t presented as monsters immune to the threat of avian extinction though. Rather they are self-styled experts, often clinging to the values of a past era. A backdrop of paintings romanticising the English landscape, from Eric Ravilious  chalk horse on a West Country hill to David Hockney s Technicolor take on Yorkshire, underlines how artists also impose their very human vision on to the natural world.Where things get really interesting   and risky   is in Andy s focus on a particularly thorny subject right now: class, specifically the white working class, apparently left behind by the globalised world and demonised as stuck on a vision of a Britain that never was. Today s criminal egg collectors are welders and decorators, living isolated existences with pictures of those original  gentlemen scientists pinned to their walls .Victorian hero Lord Rothschild   who founded the Natural History Museum, gifting it his egg collection   is represented in the two-screen video by a photo of his zebras pulling a carriage. On the other hand, the East Ender Matthew Gonshaw, whose collection landed him in prison in 2011, comes across as a tragic, sympathetic figure.  I d like to find a female,  he says, baring his lonely heart to a gang of news reporters. In an adjoining room, Andy has recreated a 2006 hoard of 7,130 eggs, found in Cleethorpes. The tiny speckled treasures are housed as they were discovered, not in display cases but old margarine tubs and chocolate boxes.The subject matter is quaint, but Andy uses rough edges   his awkward delivery, the iffy animation   to avoid what might be a rose-tinted Wes Anderson-ish dive into yesteryear s pursuits. What emerges, finally, is a reflection on the dangerous allure of nostalgia itself. There are a lot of layers to unpick. But, like the osprey s nest, it is a project that deserves repeat visits.   is at the former Newington Library, London, until 5 November.																																											