t the dawn of the 20th century, the American sociologist and campaigner WEB Du Bois argued that African Americans needed more than industrial training to vanquish inequality in the wake of slavery, declaring:  The Negro race, like all races, is going to be saved by its exceptional men. The problem of education,  ,  must first of all deal with the Talented Tenth; it is the problem of developing the Best of this race that they may guide the Mass away from the contamination and death of the Worst, in their own and other races. For the New Orleans-based writer and academic Ladee Hubbard, it s an idea that chimes strangely with our era of blockbuster superheroes and Black Lives Matter, of Avengers Assemble and Donald Trump. It does sound like a superhero group,  Hubbard says,  though that was not at all what he was talking about. Du Bois s suggestion resounds through Hubbard s debut novel, The Talented Ribkins, where 72-year-old Johnny discovers his niece Eloise is the latest in the family to possess a peculiar gift. The father who died before she was born had an uncanny ability to climb walls, while Johnny himself has a mysterious facility for making maps of places he s never seen. Aunt Simone can alter her appearance any way she wants, while Uncle Bertrand can spit fire. When it emerges that Johnny and his family used to fight injustice alongside a man who ran so fast they call him Flash, and a woman with a right fist like a hammer, it becomes clear that with Eloise s own great power must also come great responsibility.There s plenty of hard reality to be found in The Talented Ribkins alongside these unconventional superpowers. The novel is set in motion when a dodgy property dealer realises Johnny hasn t been entirely accurate with the claims he s been making for expenses, and gives him a week to scrape together $100,000. So Johnny and Eloise set off on a road trip to dig up loot he s stashed in some of Florida s less glamorous locations, pursued by a couple of heavies the crooked businessman has put on his tail. But like Colson Whitehead and Mohsin Hamid, whose novels   The Underground Railroad and Exit West   also move beyond the literal, Hubbard realised the story she wanted to tell needed more than straightforward realism.Hubbard says these fantastical elements all emerged organically:  The story is about a young person visiting all these people that are older than her and that she greatly admires,  she says,  so there s a natural tendency to see them as greater, more heroic figures, as larger than life. But the Ribkins  superpowers are also part of a wider story.  What is presented as the real is often so disingenuous,  Hubbard explains.  There s an official history of how things were, of how people interact, what their histories are in relation to each other, and the truth is   for a variety of reasons   not included in that. You re aware of it because people tell you, they whisper things in your ear. That s part of the whole thing about these [characters] being outside the parameters of the normal, of the natural, because that s the only way you can actually see them. They don t fit into the official narrative of history. When Johnny and Eloise visit Flash in Tallahassee, they find a family scrapbook filled with photographs and news clippings that chart the contested history of race in the US. But the album isn t really an account of the past, Hubbard writes, instead it is  an annotated manual on the art of reading between the lines .As a professor at Tulane University in New Orleans, where she has spent more than a decade teaching on , Hubbard is all too aware of how often black culture can only be studied by looking at the margins. So much is left out of official narratives of history,  Hubbard explains,  and yet so much is retained through stories and oral histories. More than a century after Du Bois called for a Talented Tenth to  uplift a people , the discrimination that forces difficult choices on the Ribkins isn t so much the subject of the novel as an immutable fact about the world they inhabit, an inhuman context within which they struggle to find humanity. That s the reality,  Hubbard says.  That s part of what everybody is trying to cope with and work through. It s definitely there in the novel, but it s intentionally in the background. You take that as a given. Hubbard began working on the novel when she went back to college to study creative writing at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2012, and started developing a short story she d published a couple of years before. Despite the central role played by inequality in The Talented Ribkins, Hubbard insists she wasn t writing out of anger, but from love for the characters she describes, many of whom are drawn from the inspirational and heroic figures she has known personally. Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1970, as a child Hubbard spent every summer with her grandparents in Florida.  There s a lot of my grandfather in Johnny,  she says,  and that s someone I really admire. She may have lived in New Orleans since 2003 as well, but she still hesitates to call herself a southern writer. I don t know, maybe   she laughs as she grapples with the notion.  I live in the south and I have been writing about the south. I guess I am, at this point.  Perhaps the description feels so unexpected because, as a woman of colour, Hubbard admits she s a long way from the traditional stereotype of the southern man of letters.  There are a lot of southern writers who are not old white guys in linen suits, but maybe they don t get so much attention. Maybe the image needs updating. When Johnny takes Eloise to see the Hammer, she reminds him that a storyteller  can t really dictate a moral . If, however, there is a moral to be found in The Talented Ribkins, it s about  doing the best you can with what you ve been given , says Hubbard. Maybe not always having the answers, maybe feeling very alienated at times, not always knowing what you should do, but you keep trying   and hope that someone understands what you re trying to do. 																																											