



Google celebrates Samuel Johnson s 308th birthday today with a new doodle. Johnson was born on 18 September 1709, but when was his hugely influential A Dictionary of the English Language published?



 


  1729 



 


  1745 



 


  1755 



 


  1765 




How long did it take Johnson to write the work?



 


  Two years 



 


  Eight years 



 


  Twenty years 



 


  Fifty years 




How many entries did it run to?



 


  4,776 



 


  21,123 



 


  42,773 



 


  100,000 




Which profession does Johnson describe in the dictionary as that of a  harmless drudge ?



 


  Lamp lighter 



 


  Publisher 



 


  MP 



 


  Lexicographer 




And to what is he referring here?  A man of artifice; one of deep contrivance. 



 


  A politician 



 


  A literary agent 



 


  An actor 



 


  A publisher 




Which word does Johnson describe in his definition as  a ludicrous word ?























 


  Jobberknowl 



 


  Loggerhead 



 


  Far-fetch 



 


  Whig 




What is Johnson defining here?  A grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland appears to support the people.  



 


  Whisky 



 


  Bran 



 


  Wheat 



 


  Oats 




 What is his definition of "depucelate"?



 


  To bereave of virginity. 



 


  A convulsion of the lungs, vellicated by some sharp serosity. 



 


  Any thing reticulated or decussated, at equal distances, with interstices between the intersections. 



 


  A dish so changed by the cookery that it can scarcely be known. 




What is Johnson defining here?  To deprive a dog of something, nobody knows what, under his tongue, which is said to prevent him, nobody knows why, from running mad. 



 


  The verb  to castrate  



 


  The verb  to worm  



 


  The verb  to dock  



 


  The verb  to deflea  




Johnson did make the occasional mistake in his dictionary   for example defining a pastern as  the knee of a horse  when it is in fact  the part of a horse's foot between the fetlock and the hoof  (says Collins). How does Boswell say he responded when asked why he made the mistake? 



 


  "Ignorance, Madam, pure ignorance." 



 


   My dear friend, clear your mind of cant.  



 


   Words are but the signs of ideas.  



 


   A fly, Sir, may sting a stately horse and make him wince; but, one is but an insect, and the other is a horse still.  





You got 




Challenge your friends


  Share on Facebook 


   
  Share on Twitter 


   
  Share via Email 


   
  




  View more sharing options  
  Share on LinkedIn 


   
  Share on Pinterest 


   
  Share on Google+ 


   
  Share on WhatsApp 


   
  Share on Messenger 


   
  Close 


   



Submit answers


																																											