t was billed as  the greatest architectural contest in history , a hunt for  the most beautiful and distinctive office building in the world  to house  the world s greatest newspaper . The Chicago Tribune s owner, Colonel Robert R McCormick, had no shortage of ambition when he launched the  in 1922. And he wasn t disappointed by the response.The glamour of the brief, along with the lure of $100,000 in prize money (around $1.5m today), saw 263 architects submit designs from 23 countries around the world. The entries provide a fascinating cross-section of the aesthetic preoccupations of the day, ranging from neoclassical wedding cake confections to modernist slabs, reflecting a moment on the cusp of radical change.The , which still stands proudly on the corner of Michigan Avenue, was a neo-gothic fantasy of stone piers and flying buttresses, a rocket ship conjured from 16th-century France. It remains one of the finest and most intriguing towers in Chicago, if not the world, its  brought back from exotic lands by the newspaper s reporters. But it was the competition itself that had the bigger impact on the architectural imagination. The sheer range of entries sparked an international debate on what direction the future of the skyscraper should take, providing a stylistic smorgasbord for generations of towers to come.It is a discussion that the curators of the second hope to reignite this month, with an exhibition that will restage the Tribune Tower competition, 95 years on, asking contemporary architects to respond to the brief.Choosing as their theme  make new history , co-curators of the biennial Mark Lee and Sharon Johnston set out to ask a new generation what a high-rise could be today. The LA-based duo, founding partners of Johnston Marklee architecture firm, say that coming to  as outsiders, they  wanted to generate a discussion that would have an international resonance like the original competition did .That 1922 contest was the ultimate battle of the styles. The majority of American architects, then still trained in the Beaux-Arts manner, favoured a traditionalist approach, their designs ranging from teetering romanesque campaniles to gothic piles. These were office buildings as cathedrals, their mighty stone shafts crowned with domes, globes and spires. Columns were piled on pilasters, rusticated plinths groaned under heaving cornices and every junction was elaborated with a twiddly moulding. It was the post-industrial capitalist society searching for legitimacy in the fancy dress of yore.The European entries, by contrast, were much more diverse, ranging from colossal Art Deco monuments to stark steel frames stripped of all ornament. There was an  by Bruno Taut, an  and, perhaps most famously of all, a tower in the shape of a . On the eve of the publication of Le Corbusier s seminal manifesto, Vers une Architecture, you can sense the palpable excitement about capturing the  spirit of the age  in glass and steel.The competition has echoed down the generations, and Johnston and Lee are  as a means of sampling the mood of the day. In 1980, Chicago architects Stanley Tigerman and Stuart Cohen invited  Late Entries  to the competition, asking such luminaries as Tadao Ando and Frank Gehry to submit designs. As Tigerman wrote:  The original competition occurred at a time that was near the end of one era and the beginning of another. This exhibition takes place during a time of revisionism in which Modernism is being safely relegated to its place in history. The entries were a riotous postmodern hotch-potch of reference and collage. The designers sampled promiscuously from different periods and used their proposals as vehicles for critical commentary. , embodying  violence, liberty, politics and technology  in its sculpted facade. Helmut Jahn looked at exploiting the available air rights above the existing tower, building a  of the Tribune on top of its gothic crown. Ando proposed a , while , from whose wings visitors could dangle in an aerial fairground ride.Just as the 1922 competition revealed a new generation of modernists, so the 1980 version celebrated the return of history and ornament, the  complexity and contradiction  called for by Robert Venturi.  Our own generation has gained new vitality,  wrote Tigerman,  through its desire to find formal meaning in our cultural origins now that the barrenness of Modernism is behind us. So what will the 2017 edition tell us about the state of contemporary architecture? By limiting the selection to just 15 architects, all sampled from a similar-ish school of thought, it is unlikely to give the full picture. Rather than taking the temperature of global practice, the curators say they wanted to give a younger generation the chance to make a statement about building tall. There are none of the obvious big names   no globular  parametric  stalagmites from Zaha Hadid Architects, no Lego brick ziggurats from Bjarke Ingels, no mute stone obelisks from Peter Zumthor, no minimal white pillars from Sanaa. Instead, there will be a series of thoughtful, critical reflections on the Tribune competition, exhibited as an immersive grove of three-metre high scale models.London architect  continues the witty strain of the 1980 competition. Referring to the archaeological fragments embedded in the fa?ade of the existing tower, his proposal sees an octagonal cupola perched atop arched colonnades that in turn rest upon modernist grids. With this playful layer-cake of different buildings Jacob is reflecting on how  architecture is not something that we create but something that already exists, just waiting for us to discover it .Swiss practice  have gone down the ready-made route too, choosing to recreate an  built in S?o Paulo in 1964, as a celebration of  the pristine architecture of pure tectonics . Others have rather lazily recycled previous projects of their own, with Mexico s  stacking one of their framed proposals on top of another, and France s  scaling up a faceted column from a student housing block he s built in Paris. follow a similar path, but with a more elaborate narrative, asking a number of American wood-turners to each lathe a section of their tower according to a series of profiles taken from their  gallery in London, whose Georgian interior was, for a while, on display in the Art Institute of Chicago.The models will no doubt make for a series of diverting art pieces, but overall there seems to be too much interest in concocting a clever story and little attention given to actually designing a high-rise media headquarters for the 21st century.Some entries touch on the changing media landscape, but don t take it very far.  proposes a vertiginous stack of pavilions, like nested coffee tables gone awry, conceived as a landscape of  theatres, meeting zones, restful landscapes and hedonistic gardens: the true productive spaces for today s media workers.  African architect  imagines a mixed-use neighbourhood, with housing, workspace and cultural facilities arranged around a series of voids in a tower of cylinders. Mexico s  imagines a  vertical community  of 192 plots, given to a range of collaborators to design.Visitors expecting a cross-section of contemporary practice will be disappointed. But then again you only have to visit Manhattan to find  next to . When every kind of high-rise imaginable is already being built, from  to , it seems that many of the young practices here would rather retreat into the realms of commentary and critique than add to the mel e.As for the Chicago Tribune itself, the exhibition comes at a poignant moment. The newspaper recently announced that it is moving out of its iconic headquarters after its . There are plans to convert it into luxury apartments and a hotel, a stark reminder that neither newspapers, nor architects, have the power they once enjoyed.																																											