t was Sarah Smith s  political expertise and pedigree  that convinced BBC bosses the broadcaster s  was the perfect There is her professional pedigree as a hugely experienced and respected journalist with a string of high profile posts at Channel 4 and the BBC under her belt. Then there is her family pedigree, as daughter of . It is always the latter seized on by critics keen to prove left-leaning BBC bias. It has happened before, and it is happening again.Smith, 48, is accustomed to such claims. So-called  cybernats  trolled her aggressively when she moved back to her native Scotland from London to present the late-night current affairs show  2014 before the independence referendum. Questioning her impartiality   her father thought of devolution as  the settled will  of the Scottish people   they saw her as London-based  talent  exported over the border to buoy BBC anti-independence bias.  Inevitable , she has said of such online abuse. Then gets on with her job.Being the eldest daughter of the man who, before his untimely death aged 55 of a heart attack in 1994, was widely tipped to become Labour s first prime minister in 18 years has afforded Smith enviable political credentials and contacts. Had he attained his lifetime s ambition, however, she might not now be taking over a high-profile slot in the hotly contested Sunday morning broadcast round.It would have meant self-imposed exile.  Get the hell out of here, was the clear plan. I had no intention of staying. My life would have been impossible. I ve never used any kind of nepotism, but I would absolutely shamelessly have phoned ABC or CNN and said:  I have a small problem. My father appears to have become British prime minister. Could you help me with a job in New York? ,  she has said.Smith was in California on holiday when her father died. He is buried on the Scottish island of Iona in Argyll where, in 2007, she walked up the aisle unaccompanied to marry Simon Conway, a successful novelist who has worked for landmine-clearing charities.Raised in Edinburgh s upmarket Morningside with two younger sisters, she attended a comprehensive school, and then Glasgow University, clearly making the most of her student days. On her graduation, her father dragged her into a lecture theatre to  make sure I d seen the inside of one before I left for good , she has joked.Smith began her career in 1989 as a graduate trainee at BBC Scotland and in Northern Ireland. One of her many strengths, say those who have watched her in action, is that she has extensive experience behind the scenes as well as on screen.  Pushy  is how Jeremy Paxman is said to have described her when, as a judge on a debating contest in Edinburgh, he found himself pestered by an undergraduate Smith on how to get into the .She was a researcher and producer at the corporation on programmes such as Newsnight and Public Eye, and by 1997, an onscreen reporter on 5 News, where she was described by one editor as  extremely lively with a first-class brain . She spent 15 years with Channel 4 News, during which her frontline roles included Scotland correspondent and Washington correspondent. Her assignments included the first election victory for Barack Obama and the Haiti earthquake.When BBC Scotland beckoned, offering her the chance to anchor Scotland 2014, , she did not hesitate, even though it meant temporarily moving back into her childhood home with her mother, Elizabeth, Lady Smith of Gilmorehill.  There was a wee bit of  Is this a step backwards?  but it was a passing thought.  The offer was too good to decline. Those who have worked with her describe her as very capable, extremely ambitious, and a proven presenter who knows what she is doing. She does not, they say, shy away from a challenge. She launched More4 News, which was a digital success, and taking on Scotland 2014 was considered a pretty tough task.She is seen as part of Scotland s political royalty. Family friends have included Donald Dewar, the inaugural first minister of Scotland, the former Labour prime minster Gordon Brown, and the former defence secretary John Reid. The father of the former Scottish Labour leader Wendy Alexander and her brother Douglas, then international development secretary, officiated at her Iona wedding. Her sister Jane is married to Malcolm Robertson, a founding partner of the powerful strategic communications agency Charlotte Street Partners, and the son of Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, the former secretary general of Nato and defence secretary.Being the daughter of a high-profile politician has had some downsides. She has told of attending one Scots night at a Labour party conference with her sister Jane after their father became leader. The two sat diligently beside the Kinnocks, avoiding alcohol and listening to speeches for two hours.  We thought all the photographers had gone, but the moment we poured a drink and lit a cigarette, there was an explosion of flash bulbs. The picture was in almost every paper the next day,  she once told the Sunday Times.Described as self-contained and focused at work, she is said to be convivial and a good laugh socially. One journalist in 1999 described a young Smith as  perky, smokes like a hardened hackette and knows how to drink .Her rich political history, one source observed, has seen Smith operate at a higher level than anybody else at the BBC in Scotland. It has also meant some stories have been closer to home, though she has never shied away from reporting them. The death of Gordon Brown s daughter, Jennifer, was one. Another was Robin Cook s death, like her father from a heart attack.  If anything,  she has said,  I probably worked too hard to disassociate myself emotionally on that occasion. Neither is she afraid to take on her bosses. She was one of several female presenters to publicly criticise the BBC over the recent , and at Channel 4 was one of the signatories to a letter complaining of staff shortages and a  them and us  two-tier newsroom.No one appears to doubt her ability to make a success of Sunday Politics. James Harding, director of BBC News, is said to be a big fan. Smith is thought to have thrown her hat in the ring for political editor, which . The thinking is that Smith did not expect to get it but wanted to put a marker down. If true, it seems to have worked. Everything that has ever happened to me has been a complete accident,  she said in 2007.  People think you must have a career plan, but I could never have planned a single thing. 																																											