t s Friday afternoon in Ibiza, the sun is beating down and I ve arrived at an old army barracks in the centre of the Spanish clubbing mecca for the inaugural . It resembles a rave; the police, naturally, have already tried to close it down. But despite the troupes of hippies, decorative canopies and the totem pole demarcating the entrance, it is most definitely not a rave.While the tech house superclubs prepare for another night of narcotics and vest-clad fist pumping, this is an event singing to a different tune. If you ve ever wondered what happens when a former Brazilian model and a ex-director of a tech startup discover , then you ve found your answer: they launch a foundation dedicated to the promotion of indigenous culture, start a festival and fly in 40 spiritual leaders from around the world to lead a series of talks, performances and ceremonies including the ritualistic sharing of cacao, the consumption of  plant medicine  and sweat lodges. Whatever your poison, Ibiza is always going to be an island of excess. I think Ibiza is a very magnetic place,  says co-founder Vivien Vilela, who is from S?o Paolo, lived in London and spent a fair amount of time partying on the island in a  past life .  But now, instead of destroying our bodies we re healing. We re still dancing, but we re dancing to sacred chants; we re connecting as a community. After passing a man on a unicycle, sitting in on a talk by a member of the Peruvian Ash ninka tribe, and watching a woman perform improvised cosmic wellness poetry while staring into the eyes of whomever wishes to have their soul sung to ( We think we haven t figured it out because ours is the only Instagram that isn t smiling,  she sings while a young woman kneels before her, weeping), I sit down in a shady corner where Mexican native and Ibiza resident Javier, 46, and Swedish visitor Christian, 33, are sharing a spliff.  Just as with the DJs, Ibiza is a place where the most important people in the spiritual community come,  Javier tells me, when I ask why events like this still happen here.  There s three generations of spirituality. It s always coexisted with the clubs but this is the real soul of the island. The hippy dream is still alive. For many, this will always be the  true Ibiza . It is over four decades since the hippies first laid foot there: a mix of artists, writers and Vietnam draft-dodgers who established the non-conforming spirit of psychedelic decadence that laid the foundations for the island to grow into one of the world s biggest and most lucrative clubbing destinations. When the first clubs opened   like Pacha in 1973 and Amnesia in 1976   resident DJs such as Alfredo played to this boho, free-spirited crowd, his selections generating the origins of the  Balearic beat  sound now synonymous with Ibiza: a louche, euphoric music that spans genres but finds commonality in its laidback eclecticism, blending touches of jazz, Latin, Italo, new wave, lounge music and much besides, from Grace Jones s pop-reggae to dreamy Ennio Morricone soundtracks. Now, the dominant musical force in Ibiza is the ubiquitous digital pulse of tech house. From the moment you arrive at San Antonio airport, and all along the road into the city, you can see billboards for superstar DJs like David Guetta, Richie Hawtin or Calvin Harris. Thousands of clubbers throng within the smoke and lasers of high-priced, corporate-minded venues and, if they can afford it, buy their way into a VIP booth and look down from the mezzanine while sipping their way through a  2,000 bottle of Belvedere. At a time when, for many, the homogenous club culture of the island has reached an overbearing peak, the hippy scene and the old-school Balearic beat bohemians have reasserted themselves as alternatives for a small but growing number of people travelling to the island for a more  traditional  experience.If there s one place on the island where the Balearic spirit has found a home, it is Hostal La Torre, a politely chic, classically Mediterranean hotel overlooking the sea at Cap Negret, just north of San Antonio. You can enjoy a stunning sunset view while a carefully curated selection of DJs   DJ Harvey, Alfredo, Paul Davey from Leftfield   provide the soundtrack.  This is the opposite of the big clubs  VIP culture,  resident DJ Pete Gooding tells me as the light begins to fade to the theme from Midnight Cowboy by John Barry.  It s the anti-Vegas side of Ibiza. No one is walking up to you with bottles of champagne and sparklers .Bought three seasons ago by the family behind chillout joint Cafe Mambo (neighbour to the equally legendary Cafe Del Mar), La Torre has solidified its position within the Balearic revival thanks to its successful compilation albums, , selected by Gooding and fellow resident    two men with obsessive personalities dedicated to synching every sunset to the right track. Barrott s label, , has played a big role in the revival of classy electronic chillout music, a sound which has found new popularity in recent years thanks to labels such as Antinote and ESP Institute, and producers like Wolf Muller, Tornado Wallace, Nico Motte and DK. As well as drawing in the hippies, its audience is wrapped up with those fuelling the rise of  such as Brilliant Corners and Spiritland in London. This summer, Ibiza gained a new club in this model, with the opening of Petit Pereyra, an audiophile restaurant and club in Talamanca that will host the DJs who helped define Ibiza, with residents including Pippi and Cesar de Melero playing vinyl on a bespoke Klipschorn hi-fi system in an exclusive clubhouse. Its owner, Eric-Jan Harmsen doesn t mince his words when describing his disdain for the superclubs or his lack of interest in attracting wealthy punters.  I am not in that business,  he says.  I don t do marketing, I don t go for tourism, I m the anti-guy. Other established venues have also recently focused on appealing to a different crowd. Since it was taken over, five years ago, by Andy McKay and Dawn Hindle, the pair behind Ibiza Rocks,  has been trying to rekindle the decadence of the 80s and early 90s.  Back then, the most important people in the nightclubs were the freaks, beatniks and hippies,  says McKay, reminiscing about a guy who used to wear a suitcase as an outfit, get into Manumission for free every night and dance on a podium.  Why? They were the life of the party. We want people to lose themselves. I do think that authentic Ibiza is about letting go. In terms of programming, this means takings things back to Balearic. DJ Harvey   who releases compilation The Sound of Mercury Rising this month on Pikes  new record label   plays on Mondays, while Sunday parties hosted by Mark and Sarah Broadbent foster a music policy designed to put off groups of tanked-up teens. Though entry to Pikes is free, the door policy means that younger punters will usually be turned away.  We still get complaints about the music,  says Mark.  People come up to you and say: why aren t you playing house? You re ruining our holiday. But if you don t like that stuff, you shouldn t be there. Other events prioritising the eclectic Ibizan spirit include Nightmares on Wax s Wax Da Jam and Acid Sundays, both held at the old hippy market Las Dalias. The names of these parties come up frequently among those attending Aniwa, along with one of the island s biggest success stories over the past year, Woomoon.  The best parties here are all built from micro-communities and have an element of spirituality,  one girl tells me, and this, I m told, is the essence of Woomoon, which blends together circus-style performances, art and dance, bringing something of the essence of  to the island.  People are looking for something different in Ibiza,  says co-founder Doumi.  Less commercial, less superficial, more poetic. Maintaining a connection to a deeper spirituality believed to emanate from the island is what motivates these events and those that attend them, whether it s seeking transcendence through an ayahuasca ceremony, dancing to cosmic rhythms under the moon or celebrating the emotional surge of a sunset to the sound of rare groove.  If you look back into the history, it s always had that something.  Mark Barrott tells me, as he explains how the music he makes on the island feels distinct from his productions made elsewhere.  People need magic ... and Ibiza has magic. Is there real magic, or is there imagined magic? You kinda don t want to know the answer.   is open all year, 8am midnight. DJ Harvey s The Sound of Mercury Rising is out September 29 on Pikes Records. Learn more about Aniwa s future events at .																																											