t s hard to imagine approaching this debut collection of short stories, set in the US prison system, without the knowledge that Curtis Dawkins is a prisoner serving a life sentence without parole. Dawkins killed a man in the commission of a botched robbery at a time when he was addicted to drugs, a crime that s fairly commonplace for the hapless but gravely culpable people who end up spending their lives in prison. Less typical is the fact that, before he went to prison, Dawkins earned an MFA in creative writing.This combination results in a book that is remarkable for its modesty, realism and humanity. There s no trace of the grand guignol sadism and preoccupation with sexual violence that typify popular prison narratives, from to . Instead, Dawkins gives us prison as it is?for most inmates most of the time: a?series of dull, claustrophobic days, in?which men oppress each other not with violence, but tedium. His characters play dominoes, tell interminable stories, sell handmade Christmas cards?to each other, obsessively watch sports. The existence of violence is acknowledged, but it s left at the margins of the narrative. The more present danger, to which various characters succumb, is the temptation of suicide.The risk of this approach, of course, is that the stories could be as boring and shapeless as prison life itself. But Dawkins has a genius for bringing characters to life and making mundane situations compelling, if only because they feel so real. Throughout, it s the tiny details that keep us invested; a?prisoner missing life outside remembers how  when I would mow my yard, my dog followed close behind me, and when I would stop he d run into the back of my legs .In  A Human Number , a prisoner uses his phone time to make collect calls to random numbers; he finds a kindly elderly woman who reads the Book of Revelation to him, then pauses to take a pie out of the oven and begins to talk to it  as if it were a small child or a puppy:  Oh, you are a nice little yummy thing, aren t you. You are just perfect    ? Most of the characters reflect on the?past; the empty days of prison become a mirror in which they continually face the shortcomings that?brought them here.In the story  Daytime Drama , a prisoner with mental health issues wears a blanket as a cape and babbles unguardedly to other prisoners, asking to borrow one man s teeth and telling a?gay man:  You must dream of going to prison.  We keep expecting someone to react badly and hurt him, but the other prisoners make allowances for?his mental illness and treat him with humour and patience.We learn that he?has  uncles in prison all over the country , in addition to one uncle who?has been executed by lethal injection. His own?crime (which is never specified) carries?a mandatory sentence of life in?prison. He doesn t grasp the horror of any of this, and seems to have no memory of whatever he?did;?he s just trying not to lose control?in the time before his next?medication.In the final story,  Leche Quemada , a man returns home after 12 years in prison for a crime that s similar to Dawkins s. Remarkably, his girlfriend has remained faithful; but what this means is that he returns to the same petty relationship problems he had before. He can t satisfy her demands; she doesn t share his enthusiasms. He ends up saying to the?dog:  Did I ever leave?  He tells himself to be grateful for his second chance at life, but also finds he s uncomfortably nostalgic for prison. He s terrifyingly unsure he ll be able to make it outside, and sadly reflects that  all the good parts [of life]?appeared to be over: the kids growing?up, climbing the career ladder,?family trips everyone would always remember . is a debut, and like most debuts, it isn t perfect. It has its overwrought images, its passages of?cod , its ill-judged foray into magical realism. There are cringeworthy moments of phoned-in psychology:  He would change or he wouldn t. Some men never do. They spend the rest of their lives denying the truth, protecting the illusions that?protect them from their past.  But?Dawkins has a gravitas and clear-sightedness that carries us past these?moments.He has produced a book that is not?only moving and genuine, but genuinely important; one that, without resorting to shock tactics, powerfully conveys the perverse inhumanity of mass incarceration. Sandra Newman s  is published by Vintage.is published by Canongate. To order a copy for ?14.44 (RRP ?16.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											