t s hard to watch any film in the current political climate and not look for parallels to , but Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down The White House arrives seeming less like a coded message than a direct plea. The FBI needs to remember that they are independent of the White House, and have an obligation to do right by any means necessary.Obviously, this movie, directed by Peter Landesman and produced by Ridley Scott, was in production well before any current investigations concerning inappropriate Russian meddling with the 2016 election. Moreover, the actions taken by Mark Felt (Liam Neeson) during Watergate weren t quite as altruistic as one might think.Felt, known better to the world as Deep Throat (the slightly risque sobriquet given by Washington Post editors to reporter  s secret, well-placed source), didn t initially begin leaking information to the press because he had it in for Richard Nixon. He did it because he was passed over for a job.When J Edgar Hoover, , died after maintaining a chamber of secrets for almost 40 years, Richard Nixon appointed an interim chief who was loyal to the White House instead of promoting Felt, the longtime second-in-command. The new boss Pat Gray (Marton Csokas) knows where his bread is buttered, but he also knows that Felt is untouchable. Things come to a head not so much because the dirty tricks group , but because Gray asks Felt to ease off digging into it at the White House s behest. It isn t so much that the White House crossed the line   it s that they crossed the Bureau.It s this distinction that prevents this film from being a total bore. It is, instead, only a somewhat bore. The problems include Landesman s drab shooting style (so many washed-out gray and light blue offices) and the preposterous background music, which crashes down on piano keys whenever anyone says anything important. Then there s the inarticulate script that drew some chuckles during the press screening. Worst example:  Can you get this out before November 7th?   That s Election Day! Liam Neeson certainly looks cool when he gazes through blinds at the White House, and we re meant to wonder  what s he thinking?  But every time anyone opens their mouth all subtlety is smashed to bits. It s as if Landesman watched Tomas Alfredson s  and set out to do the same thing, but only managed a heavy-handed rehash.A secondary story about Felt s troubled marriage is given no room to breathe and all poor Diane Lane has to do is look sad in period clothing with a drink in her hand. The Felts  daughter has run off to a far-left hippie commune and this perhaps is why Felt takes such a hard (and knowingly illegal) line against domestic terrorist groups like The Weather Underground. Much of the time Felt is shown as distancing himself from the dirty tricks of Hoover s earlier years, and Tom Sizemore s cartoonish  bad G-man  Bill Sullivan is repulsive compared to the broad-shouldered and noble Felt.The implication is that the unconstitutional acts Felt approved in this specific arena were done to  save  his daughter. Maybe they d never even make it into this biopic (based on Felt s own book, and likely approved by his estate) if he didn t eventually get indicted. (President Reagan quickly acquitted him.)The worst thing, though, is that there s already a masterpiece of a film telling this story from the other side, Alan J Pakula s . (Hell, even Oliver Stone s Nixon is better.) It s surprising that a film about Deep Throat could be such an anticlimax.																																											