Taking on even more importance in the aftermath of the Grenfell Tower tragedy,  of parades, parties and people crammed into west London over the bank holiday weekend. If you re looking for some nocturnal fun before and after the parades, , while  on the 27th August extends the fun via a heady mix of reggae, soca, dancehall and Afrobeat. Maybe take Tuesday off work, mind you.Crowning another hugely successful year for UK grime, the Boy Better Know collective   who signed Drake to their label and include Skepta, his brother Jme and Wiley, among others   are . The likes of A$AP Rocky, J Hus and Mabel provide support, while Tim  Big Dawg  Westwood will also be on hand should your energy drop.Now in its 12th year, End of the Road has become one of the highlights of a seemingly endless festival season. This year features the likes of Perfume Genius, Father John Misty, the Jesus & Mary Chain and Let s Eat Grandma bringing the requisite Pitchfork-friendly, 6 Music-loving weirdness to the picturesque Larmer Tree Gardens in Dorset. .  and seven years after their last album, cowbell enthusiasts LCD Soundsystem   led by crumpled university lecturer-looking James Murphy   are back with American Dream. The basic, PowerPoint-esque artwork hopefully isn t a reflection on the music. Out 1 September.A Sundance hit, where it was snapped up by Fox Searchlight for $10.5m, the lo-fi Patti Cake$ tells the story of aspiring New Jersey rapper Patricia  Dumbo  Dombrowski, and her various attempts to bring her music to at least a handful of people. Having earned her rap battle stripes, she forms a rap crew, PBNJ, featuring her best friend, her ailing nana and a striking loner called Basterd the Antichrist, who has a preference for screaming  sheep  at audiences. It has been described as  Juno meets 8 Mile    be charmed from 1 September.Yorkshire farming s very own Brokeback Mountain, director Francis Lee s feature film debut tells the story of isolated sheep farmer Johnny Saxby and his intense relationship with Romanian migrant worker Gheorghe Ionescu, employed to help out during lambing season. Full of repressed emotions and unvoiced fears, it s a moving, very British love story. In cinemas from 1 September.Finishing on 2 September,  collects together some of Andy Warhol s most famous works, including paintings of the likes of Robert Mapplethorpe, Joseph Beuys and Gilbert & George, plus some of his iconic images of Chairman Mao, Elizabeth Taylor, Muhammad Ali and original boy band the Beatles. Famous for his often harrowing photographs documenting conflict around the world, McCullin s work is about capturing humanity, typically in the worst scenarios imaginable. This free exhibition takes place at .Written and directed by Clarke Peters, AKA Lester Freamon from The Wire, this new production of the Olivier-winning musical arrives in . Expect high production values   the venue s been designed to look like a 1940s New Orleans jazz club   and spirited versions of jazz legend Louis Jordan s back catalogue.Based on South African author Es kia Mphahlele s story, this staging at Hull Truck Theatre brings to life the tale of a stolen suitcase and the dramatic aftermath. .																																											