The  judge Craig Revel Horwood has backed a call for the BBC to feature same-sex couples on its hit dancing show and predicted it could happen next year.His comments come after the  on Strictly. The broadcaster was responding to comments made by the Rev Richard Coles, a contestant on this year s show, who argued it made  no sense  that anyone would resist having dancers of the same gender taking to the floor together.On Monday, the judge said the tango was originally danced by two men. He told ITV s Lorraine show:  I think same-sex couples can exist. You only have to decide who s going to go backwards really, that s the only difference.  Asked whether viewers could see same-sex couples in future, he said:  I hope so, I really hope so. In the world of competition there are same-sex couples   So there s no reason why that can t happen. The Beeb have to decide whether they want to do that one year. I think it will probably happen next year.  If you consider the tango was originally danced between two men anyway   It s powerful, explosive, and the same can happen between two women.  There s nothing wrong   I mean, you can get married now, can t you? The judge, who has a reputation for being the harshest on the Strictly panel, added that it was  great to celebrate anyone s sexuality .  It s not just about sex, it s about dancing,  he said. Coles, who was one half of the 1980s band the Communards, is married to a man, and is among the 15 contestants taking part in this year s Strictly, which began on Saturday. He has been paired with professional dancer Dianne Buswell.He told Digital Spy he had a discussion with bosses on the show about same-sex couples taking part.  I think this year would be a good year to do it actually, with the 50th anniversary of [the] Sexual Offences Act (which decriminalised sex between two men aged over 21),  he said. Fellow contestant Susan Calman, who is a lesbian, had been criticised on social media for not having a female dance partner.  She responded on Twitter: Calman stressed that she had worked tirelessly for LGBT equality her whole life.  Dancing s not necessarily about sex; it s acting. When I do a sexy tango with my partner I ll be acting and, fundamentally, I ve watched the show for years and I want to learn how to dance,  she said.A spokeswoman for the  said over the weekend:  Strictly has chosen the traditional format of mixed-sex couples and at the moment we have no plans to introduce same-sex couples in the competition. 																																											