The  of everyday things and places that Whiteread makes are wonders of our time.  , from 12 September to 21 January.One of the most fascinating and enigmatic peoples of the ancient world gets the blockbuster treatment.  , London, from 14 September to 14 January.One of the stars of  shows his latest absorbing, abstract paintings.  , from 8 September to 21 October.Huge, haunting charcoal drawings with a political edge by this major American artist.  , from 15 September 11 November.This imaginative, intelligent artist, known for his painting and photography, shows a stimulating range of works, both old and new.  , from 15 September to 13 January. The god Jupiter takes the form of a bull to carry Europa across the sea in this highly unusual depiction of a famous myth. In other paintings of the story, , it is full of sexual tension. Reni, however, portrays a fully-clad Europa sitting comfortably on her gentle beast. She looks up to heaven in the manner of a Catholic saint. This is emphatically an image of divine revelation and as such typical of the high baroque age it was created in. It might look absurd, were it not for the subtle genius of Reni s colouring. His grey sea is sublimely different from the traditional blue or green oceans of earlier art. The bull is also a stony grey, like a floating statue. Against this he sets the brilliant pink, blue and gold of Europa s gowns to create a perfumed chromatic beauty. Reni is a painter worth spending time with.  , LondonJeremy Corbyn has made it into fashion history after a T-shirt bearing his name and an altered Nike swoosh was acquired by the Victoria & Albert Museum for one of its galleries. The museum will display the garment in its collection charting how moments of political and social change have a bearing on design trends.On 24 September, art scholar Edgar Tijhuis will lead a full-day course on  at Kings Place, London. Book now to secure your place. Our A-Z of Art series continues   ..To follow us on Twitter: 																																											