The final instalment of the documentary taking a handsome gawp at very high places and the amazing things that live in them finds its way to the Andes. When dealing with some of the most stunning scenery in the world, narrator Douglas Henshall s breathless insistence that everything you re seeing is stunning and epic still feels, as with previous episodes, slightly unnecessary. But, in his defence, it is both of those things. The current iteration of the programme in which people you ve vaguely heard of cook things reaches the semi-final stage. In this episode, the remaining eight contenders are whittled down to six. In Poole, they are divided into two teams and given three hours to prepare lunch for 120 RNLI volunteers. The usual panic ensues, inflamed by a soundtrack more suitable to the climactic battle scenes of a Star Wars film. Written by sometime Sharon Horgan collaborator Holly Walsh, this sitcom pilot acts as a showcase for four brilliant, but often underserved, comic talents: Ellie White, Lauren Socha, Siobhan Finneran and Rebecca Front. The former two play sisters   one posh, one not   who only discover each other s existence after their father dies suddenly. Tension is inevitable, but it s nothing a Supertramp singalong won t soothe. Here s hoping for a full series. I m humbled and I m proud,  says Andrew of being included in his former foster father s will, to a disgruntled Stephen, who scoffs at the logical inconsistency. Business as usual in one way, then, for the Robert Webb/David Mitchell team in episode two of Simon Blackwell s dramedy, which involves a sly pop at the practice of baptism and sees Andrew stage a festival to help keep the pub afloat, while ramping up the sibling rivalry several notches. Channel 4 can never resist the temptation of lurid enticement when titling its shows, but this is a fascinating proposition. Two ordinary people have volunteered to be monitored for 24 hours with state-of-the-art equipment. As they go about their day, readings will be taken of their brain activity, heart rate, posture and glucose levels and the resulting data analysed, making for a unique and detailed MOT of the human body. The series that sees comedians undertaking wildly silly tasks on a competitive basis returns. This time around, the contestants are Aisling Bea, Bob Mortimer, Mark Watson, Nish Kumar and Sally Phillips, and highlights include Phillips revealing a hitherto unexpected link between shoving cake in your armpits and cuddling. Greg Davies hosts, expansively, with show creator Alex Horne acting as his hangdog foil. Verging on Radio 4 clever-clever at moments, but funny. This unexpectedly charming new series follows the notorious Odd Future rapper as he gets hands-on with some of the things that he loves, including sneakers, go-karts and  breakfast . This opening episode zeroes in on the painstaking business of stop-motion animation, with Tyler making his own loony toon with expert advice from the Robot Chicken studio and The Nightmare Before Christmas mastermind Henry Selick. (James Mangold, 2007) 11.35pm, Film4Mangold s excellent remake of Delmer Davies s classic 1957 western stars Christian Bale as a decent, hard-up farmer who takes on a $200 job to deliver a prisoner   Russell Crowe s charismatic outlaw   to the train headed for Yuma prison. On the way they encounter hostile Apaches and vengeful railroad men, and come to a grudging mutual respect. Adapted from an Elmore Leonard story, it s intelligent and bloody.  (Bennett Miller, 2011) Wednesday, 1.15am, Sony Movie ChannelAfter the crazy sale that was football s transfer window, we ve had enough of money and balls, but this is a fascinating insight into the psychology of sport. It s a baseball film with little baseball action, telling the real-life story of Billy Beane (played by major leaguer Brad Pitt), coach of the lowly Oakland As. Fed up with losing his young stars to bigger clubs, Beane and Yale economics graduate Peter Brand (Jonah Hill) build a team based on statistical analysis   and it works. PH (Jacques Tourneur, 1947) Wednesday, 6am, Movies4MenThis classic film noir stars Robert Mitchum in one of his finest roles as private eye Jeff, haunted by icy femme fatale Kathie (Jane Greer). The plot twists through the California mountains, New York, Mexico and San Francisco, but it s the couple s fateful meeting in an Acapulco cantina that s the essence of it: Mitchum sipping beer and mulling over life as pain-and-nothing-but, catching up with Greer and a date with passion and death. Kirk Douglas plays the former boss who sets him off on the deadly trail. PH 8.30am, Sky Sports Main Event. Coverage of the final fixture in the Taini Jamison Trophy. 7pm, BT Sport 2. Action from the opening Group E match at Anfield. 7pm, BT Sport/ESPN. The Rotterdam club host Manchester City in Group F.																																											