The Great British Bake Off is back in its new home on Channel 4. But what did you make of the show s return   was it a showstopper, or did it leave a sour taste? Here is the verdict from our readers. Rating 4 out of 5 from Alison Williams, 49, Cardiff I thought they kept the best bits from the BBC and brought that to Channel 4. It s the same old nice, fun and lighthearted show.I really like Noel Fielding and Prue Leith so I was pleased when I heard they would be presenting. Noel is great and seemed very genuine. He is still finding his feet, but he brings a bit of quirk and makes it a bit different from the BBC Bake Off. He seems kinder than Mel or Sue. Sometimes I find Sandi Toksvig a bit patronising and sneering but she was good in this; she reined that in. I love Paul Hollywood anyway   my husband is scouse and went to the same school as him so I m a fan. My favourite bit from last night was the interchange between Paul and the scouse grandmother Flo. When he said  I love you Flo  and she said she loved him back, that was really cute. Rating 3 out of 5 from Mark Tennent, south-east England It was a valiant effort, but I think the show should have stayed where it was. The Channel 4 version lacked a spark; Noel and Sandi are no Mel and Sue and won t ever be as they aren t that sort of entertainers. I m not sure the chemistry is quite right between the two of them.I felt none of the contestants had any oomph to them. Normally there s one you feel a warmth towards but that wasn t the case, except maybe for the grandmother who made the melon cake.The format is stale. The ad breaks are irritating and intrusive. If the BBC puts up some competition, I doubt I ll watch any more Bake Off.5 out of 5 from Emma Hendry, 46, Elgin, ScotlandYou hardly noticed a change in personnel. Noel and Sandi were a surprisingly good combo: he was kind and funny and she was warm and witty. Prue could be Mary s slightly younger long-lost sister, and Paul continues to be the one the bakers all want to impress. The bakers themselves showed a wonderful array of skills. The fruit cake challenge proved quite tricky to perfect, however the bonfire cake looked beautiful and Flo s cake was apparently delicious. It certainly looked wonderful. The technical mini rolls were fiddly, but the real highlight was the showstopper. Jan s ramen noodles cake looked amazing, and the loaf and sandwich cake was so realistic   he is a true artist. The champagne bottle with ice cubes was also stunning. I could go on. It did not bother me in the slightest that it was going to Channel 4. I have always loved the Bake Off, but which channel owns the rights is of no importance to me. Rating 4 out of 5 from Mark Bays, 48, LondonThe loss of Mary changed the show and made it colder. The presenters did not make too much difference really. Mel and Sue have been replaced with as close copies as practically possible. Sandi Toksvig immediately fell into the role. Noel Fielding will take time to get there, but the first outing was a good start.Prue Leith is no doubt knowledgeable and experienced, but no one has the warmth and comfort of Mary Berry. Nothing, though, lasts forever and Prue will make the show different. I want to see her baking, to see her love for the job and to really make her part of the team.Rating 3 out of 5 from Anna Gibson, 29, LondonI was surprised by how similar the show was to the BBC version; it felt like they had tried to create the same format, but there was something a bit fake about it. I felt like no one really stood out as having much personality. In terms of the new presenters, I liked Noel, Sandi and Prue, especially Prue. She seemed to offer the same insightful feedback as Mary Berry. The only thing that jarred a bit for me was Noel Fielding s voiceover when he talked about the cakes   his voice was a bit distracting. The ad breaks were the real downside. Overall it was OK, but I am waiting to see what happens next and will be following the series more before passing too much judgment. 																																											