The impeccably regal Jenna Coleman is back in the title role as series two begins. Queen Vic is keen to return to business as usual, just a month after having her first child, but Albert and Robert Peel would rather keep news from Afghanistan away from her. With Albert s family in town for the baby s christening, the queen s frustration mounts. So she brings in the Duchess of Buccleuch (Diana Rigg) who soon puts them in their place over a cock-a-leekie soup. The latest in a flurry of docs marking the 20th anniversary of the royal s death. The story   from the national hysteria over the loss of the  people s princess  to the belated appearance of the Queen   will be familiar, of course. This time, though, alongside Tony Blair, Alastair Campbell and the Spencers, her sons are on side to discuss their feelings as they walked behind Diana s coffin.  [It was] one of the hardest things I ve ever done,  says William.Don t be fooled by the hip Brit-flick cast, this adaptation of the detective novel by Robert Galbraith (AKA JK Rowling) feels ploddingly familiar, from the sub-Bond theme tune to the upturned coat collars. Best-case scenario, it s a Soho-set Wallander; worst case, a slightly less white Midsomer Murders. Even so, Tom Burke as Strike and Holliday Grainger as his assistant Robin are intriguing enough to justify your viewing. The astronaut life is a harder sell in the post-Apollo stage, with no prospect of a moon landing in sight. Nonetheless, 12 men and women volunteered to undertake gruelling physical and mental tests under the supervision of Commander Chris Hatfield to see which of them could make it into space. Tonight: simulated splashdowns in which you have to escape the sinking pod. This turns out to be a problem for one claustrophobic candidate. Described as  compelling, radical and incredibly modern , the painter born Hannah Gluckstein and known simply as Gluck is celebrated in this timely doc. Besides her brilliant artwork (notably in the 1930s), Gluck is famous for choosing to dress   immaculately   like a man. With humour and vigour, this profile explores her passionate relationships with society women as well as attitudes around sexuality in the era. More short but sharp global reportage from the Emmy-winning doc series. At a time of escalating nuclear tensions, Charlet Duboc visits North Korea on a stage-managed press trip. The vox-pop interviews may all be eerily on-message, but the berserk pageantry of mass parades and rolling missiles tells its own story. Meanwhile, in Somalia, Gianna Toboni meets the gutsy expats who have returned home to rebuild their country. It is next to impossible not to become riveted by footage of wild lions, among nature s most beautiful and powerful creatures. On that score, this inevitably compels. On many others, it s a chore. While it deserves credit for its acknowledgment of nature s redness in tooth and claw, the narration could have afforded to revel less in the conflict of its subjects. And the soundtrack, even by the standards of US docs, is unendurably annoying. This stunning romantic epic confirmed Anthony Minghella as a major talent. Adapted from Michael Ondaatje s novel, it has Ralph Fiennes s cerebral Almasy drawn into a passionate wartime affair with newlywed Katharine (Kristin Scott Thomas) in north Africa. Minghella won Oscars for best picture and best director, while Juliette Binoche won the supporting actress Oscar for her turn as Almasy s nurse. Scorsese has a high old time of it, revelling in the debauchery of late 20th-century Wall Street s cocaine-and-sex-addled stockbroking princes, as described in the (surely overblown) memoir of trader   and later convict   Jordan Belfort. It s done with great skill and energy, but is basically Goodfellas without the violence and, pretty much, the humour. Leonardo DiCaprio exerts all the star appeal he can and still, over nearly three hours, fails to make the arrogant Belfort likable. In Peckinpah s only war film, a German platoon faces extinction on the eastern front and grapples with the themes of loyalty, honour and survival explored in his westerns. James Coburn is the pragmatic corporal; Maximilian Schell the Prussian officer ready to sacrifice his men to win the Iron Cross; James Mason noble and touching as a disillusioned old soldier. There s the trademark slow-mo violence, but coarse-grained beauty too in John Coquillon s cinematography. Clooney co-writes, directs and stars in this intelligent and gripping political thriller. He is Mike Morris, the liberal governor of Pennsylvania and leading contender in the Democratic primaries; Ryan Gosling is a brilliant, slightly shifty aide, and Philip Seymour Hoffman a veteran campaign manager in a polished, serious tale of political skulduggery and compromised principles. Coverage of day three of the second Test at Headingley.Coverage of the 12th round of the season from Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps.All the action from the top-flight amtch at Anfield.																																											