The intensity and sensuality of , the great voyeur of late 19th century art whose pastels are as potent as his paintings, should scintillate in this exhibition of his works from Glasgow s Burrell Collection. , from 20 September until 7 May.Furious paintings that reinvented pop art and connected galleries with the energy of the city in a revolutionary way. , from 21 September until 28 January.Evocative and haunting sculptures by the Turner prize winner that revisit modern utopias. , from 18 September until 4 November.The decline of America is chronicled by artists including Basquiat, Robert Gober, David Hammons, Bruce Nauman and Jenny Holzer. , London, from 20 September until 21 October. and  are among British artists influenced by the 1960s Italian movement, which collided natural processes with the modern world. This survey of arte povera and its British aftermath shows them alongside Mario Merz, Giuseppe Penone and other founders of the movement. , London, from 20 September until 17 December.In this surviving piece of a lost painting, we glimpse a magical fusion of mysticism and real life. Mary Magdalene sits reading a religious work, dressed as a modern woman might be in 15th-century Flanders, in the kind of room you would see in a palace or rich merchant s house, with solid wooden furniture and a view of a river going through green fields outside the window.  was the first Flemish painter to picture the world in such photographic detail, but it was Rogier van der Weyden who gave naturalism a poetic depth and soulfulness. Even in this fragment, we get a strong sense of the woman s inner emotional journey as she reads. The  is underway in southern California, involving more than 70 galleries and museums, all addressing the theme of Latin American and Latino art in the context of Los Angeles. Among the shows over the next few months will be ,  from the royal courts of the Mayans, Incas and Aztecs,  on the tour Walt Disney made south of the border in 1941 as part of a  good neighbour  exercise to counter Nazi propaganda, and , which showcases the bold and witty graphic design of Cuban film posters for US films.   On 24 September, art scholar Edgar Tijhuis will lead a full-day course on  at Kings Place, London. Book now to secure your place. Our A-Z of Art series continues   ..To follow us on Twitter: 																																											