The media regulator has found that  seriously breached the broadcasting code by naming the wrong man as the Westminster terror attacker, and has heavily criticised the programme for a string of major mistakes in recent years.Ofcom has taken the highly unusual step of forcing  News to make an on-air broadcast of the outcome of its investigation.The programme reported that Abu Izzadeen, an Islamist activist formerly known as Trevor Brooks, was the person responsible for  who had been shot dead by police.During coverage of , which left four people dead, Simon Israel, Channel 4 News s senior home affairs correspondent, identified Izzadeen as the attacker. Later in the programme Jon Snow, the newsreader, interrupted the broadcast to issue a correction saying that Izzadeen s brother had been in contact to say that he was, in fact, still in jail. Sorry to cut you off. We ve got a little bit more on this fast-developing story about today s attack in Westminster,  said Snow.  Channel 4 News has been contacted by Abu Izzadeen s brother, who tells this programme that he is in fact still serving a prison sentence. That from Yusuf Brooks, brother of Trevor Brooks, also known as Abu Izzadeen. Snow apologised at the end of the programme, which was subsequently pulled from the Channel 4+1 service. We found Channel 4 News committed a serious breach of broadcasting rules, after it wrongly identified the Westminster terror attacker,  said  in a statement.  Channel 4 News incorrectly referred to the same person throughout its report, and subsequent steps to mitigate the error were insufficient. In a statement, the broadcaster said the mistake came during a  fast-moving story  and that Channel 4 News had  moved swiftly to correct and clarify the facts as conflicting information came to light . We note that Ofcom acknowledges Channel 4 News made appropriate corrections while on air; removed the programme from other platforms and carried a full correction and apology the following day,  said a spokeswoman.  We are working with Channel 4 News to review and improve their existing editorial and oversight procedures. Channel 4 News said it had not made an apology or offered payment for reputational damage done to Izzadeen in the case of mistaken identity. A spokeswoman added that the programme had not received any request or demand for financial amends or an apology from or on behalf of Izzadeen.The programme also said no action was taken against Simon Israel over the on-air gaffe, and that he continues to report in the same role.The media regulator took the unusual step of ordering Channel 4 News to broadcast its decision because it is the latest in a string of accuracy lapses in recent years.It is very rare for Ofcom to order such a public broadcast of a decision   especially against one of the UK s most high-profile and respected news organisations.The last time Ofcom did so was in 2015, when it told Russia Today to make two on-air broadcasts after the TV company was found to have .  This is the fourth time in three years we have found Channel 4 in breach of its requirement to report news with due accuracy,  said Ofcom.  We are particularly concerned that another serious breach has happened, given Channel 4 s previous assurances to Ofcom that improvements to its compliance processes were being made. Considering the seriousness of this breach, we are requiring Channel 4 News to air a summary of our breach decision. The spokeswoman for Channel 4 News, which is produced by ITN, said:  Channel 4 News takes its obligations under the Ofcom Broadcasting Code extremely seriously and is committed to providing audiences with high-quality, accurate and impartial news programming.  We have participated fully in Ofcom s investigation and note the regulator s ruling which takes into account the immediate steps taken to correct and clarify the error during the course of the programme. Ofcom said Channel 4 News s recent serious breaches of the broadcasting code were:According to Ofcom records it appears to be the first time in a decade that it has forced one of the UK s main news broadcasters to air a decision about a major breach of the TV code.In 2008, the BBC was forced to do so for a broadcast of Live Earth the previous year for . In 2007, Channel 4 was forced to do so after  relating to Shilpa Shetty, Jade Goody, Jo O Meara and Danielle Lloyd.																																											