The most celebrated history book in the English language has its own famous founding myth:Edward Gibbon almost certainly contrived this fanciful recollection, but the scholarship that went into his  still stands, like a timeless Roman ruin: majestic, elegant and even sublime. An object of awe, Gibbon s history unfolds its narrative from the height of the Roman empire to the fall of Byzantium. The six volumes (published between 1776 and 1788) fall into three parts: from the age of Trajan to  the subversion of the western empire  in 395 AD; from the reign of Justinian in the east to the second, Germanic empire, under Charlemagne, in the west; and from the revival of this western empire to the fall of Constantinople in 1453. In so doing, Gibbon traces the intimate and profound connection of the ancient world to his own, more modern time, linking more or less explicitly the age of the Enlightenment to the age of Rome.Gibbon may have been an amateur historian (his life was otherwise devoted to nurturing his family s considerable wealth, and to serving in the militia), but his erudition is staggering. It was commonplace in Augustan England of the 18th century to refer to Virgil, Ovid, or Plutarch. Gibbon alludes to passages in Strabo, Sallust, Seneca, Macrobius and Longinus, among many others.Next to his learning, there s his style, whose later devotees include both Winston Churchill, ( in this series), and Evelyn Waugh.  It has always been my practice,  wrote Gibbon,  to cast a long paragraph in a single mould, to try it by my ear, to deposit it in my memory; but to suspend the action of the pen till I had given the last polish to my work. is a cathedral of words and opinions: sonorous, awe-inspiring and shadowy, with odd and unexpected corners of wit and irony, concealed in well-judged footnotes. For example, in chapter VII on Gordian, he writes:His footnote provides a witty coda:  By each of his concubines, the younger Gordian left three or four children. His literary productions were by no means contemptible. He was also happy to disavow any consequence to this immense undertaking:  History is, indeed, little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortune of mankind.  Gibbon also liked to season his narrative with pithy asides. For example:  Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius.  And again, in chapter VIII:  All taxes must, at last, fall upon agriculture.  Sometimes, Gibbon is almost the equal of Tacitus in his brutal summaries of the historical process:  Corruption, the most infallible symptom of constitutional liberty. And then there s his intellectual background, as a scholar steeped in the age of reason. Gibbon famously blamed Christianity for the disintegration of the Roman empire:However, here and there, as in his account of Constantine s conversion, he grudgingly allows for the benefits of religion, too:After several rewrites, with Gibbon  often tempted to throw away the labours of seven years , the first volume of his  was published on 17 February 1776, less than six months before the US declaration of independence, a famous climax to the revolution in the American colonies, and a more than passing coincidence. Two months after the first publication of the first volume of this colossal classic, Gibbon boasted to his stepmother about his work s reception:  It has been very well received, by men of letters, men of the world, and even by fine feathered ladies. It is, in other words, a work of universal interest, and timeless influence, unquestionably a magnificent classic of our literature. Gibbon s own farewell to his masterpiece is almost more affecting than his celebrated account of its genesis:Edward Gibbon, (1796)Winston Churchill,  (1956-58)David Womerseley, (1988)  by Edward Gibbon is available from Penguin Classics in three volumes, along with an  (?12.99). To order the latter for ?11.04 go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99																																											