The Oscar race heats up this week as the 42nd Toronto international film festival kicks off, unveiling a schedule filled with starry projects, spearheaded by a set of highly anticipated fact-based dramas. takes on the role of Thomas Edison in The Current War, a tale of the race for marketable electricity set in the late 19th century. Michael Shannon also stars, as his competitor George Westinghouse, with support from the British Spider-Man star Tom Holland. The film is a major awards hope for the controversial producer Harvey Weinstein, who was once a guaranteed Academy favorite with Shakespeare in Love and Chicago but whose stock has fallen in recent years.  Edison and Westinghouse s rivalry is the ultimate tale of competition driving ingenuity,  Weinstein said of the film.  Theirs was a battle of intellect, a race of creativity and technological innovation that we see echoed in the self-made inventors dominating spaces like Silicon Valley. Cumberbatch has some fierce competition in the race for best actor: Jake Gyllenhaal is tipped for glory with his role in the Boston marathon bombing drama Stronger, also premiering at the festival. He plays Jeff Bauman, a man who lost both of his legs while cheering on his ex-girlfriend on the day of the race. Gyllenhaal, who received a best supporting actor Oscar nomination for his role in Brokeback Mountain, claims it is the most physically demanding film of his career.  No matter how far you push yourself, to understand even the idea of that is almost close to impossible,  .In a similarly demanding role, Andrew Garfield takes on the true story of the activist and innovator Robin Cavendish in Breathe, the directorial debut of the actor Andy Serkis. When he was 28, polio left Cavendish paralyzed from the neck down. The awards-tipped drama will also open the London film festival later in the year. The true story of the disgraced figure skater Tonya Harding will also head to the festival, with  in the lead. The darkly comic film I, Tonya will provide some backstory to the Olympian accused of organizing a violent attack on Nancy Kerrigan, her rival.Toronto will also see the launch of two Ian McEwan adaptations: Saoirse Ronan stars as a newly married woman experiencing sexual difficulties in On Chesil Beach while Emma Thompson stars in the legal drama The Children Act. Also on double duty is Jessica Chastain, who stars in Aaron Sorkin s directorial debut, Molly s Game, as the head of a real-life poker empire and in the historical drama Woman Walks Ahead. There will also be a sequel to Super Size Me, which sees Morgan Spurlock examine the chicken industry.  I think we have the ability to change the way fast food functions and change the way people look at it as a result,  he said.Toronto has rapidly became a major platform for films aiming at Oscar glory, with Argo, Lion, Still Alice and Dallas Buyers Club all premiering at the festival. Other potential awards-worthy films in this year s crop include the Nightcrawler director Dan Gilroy s crime drama Roman J Israel, Esq, starring Denzel Washington and Colin Farrell, and Kings, a film about the Los Angeles riots of 1992 that stars Daniel Craig and Halle Berry.Tiff follows the Venice and Telluride festivals, where critics have been enthused by Guillermo del Toro s fantasy The Shape of Water, Alexander Payne s high-concept comedy Downsizing, Darren Aronofsky s domestic horror Mother! and Scott Cooper s western Hostiles. In total, 339 films will be showing at the festival, which runs from 7-17 September.																																											