 s Belle de Jour is 50 years old and back in UK cinemas with all its creamy elegance and scabrous humour intact. With co-writer , Bu?uel creates a secret theatre of erotic shame. The only thing that really dates the film is a startling moment when someone reads aloud a newspaper headline about . It s the one moment in Bu?uel s career when his surrealism was unintentional.This is the story of S verine, played by , the beautiful, bored young wife of a wealthy Parisian surgeon, who submits to her conjugal duties rarely and unwillingly, but becomes a high-class prostitute during the day, answering only to the name Belle de Jour and experiencing a secret erotic martyrdom, all deeply bound up with childhood abuse which resurfaces in the form of disturbing flashbacks. These Bu?uel coolly intersperses with her dreams and reveries, which appear to take place in the chateau and grounds of some Sadeian romance.Deneuve has an extraordinary and almost translucent paleness, a ghostlike moon of a face, as abstracted as a sleepwalker. The boorish attentions of her husband s leering friend Husson (Michel Piccoli) and the indiscreet chatter of his girlfriend alert her to the fact that exist in Paris, where she could offer her expensive services. After a nervous introduction to Madame Ana?s (Genevi ve Page), who presides over a discreet establishment, S verine becomes an accomplished professional, working only in the afternoons, with some amazing white lingerie as intricate as ecclesiastical vestments. She is much prized by the clientele as a  pearl : the Madame explains the vulgar term to the others by grinningly miming a darning needle. Bu?uel alludes to her reputation later by showing S verine decorously practising embroidery in her respectable home.The customers don t just want sex   they want the fantasy of being popular, of being attractive, of being the life and soul of some imaginary afternoon party as they incessantly call for champagne that is invariably too warm. Some want masochistic roleplay fantasies. One grand gentleman, a distinguished gynaecologist, wants to be humiliated, like a servant (or like Zero Mostel with his little old lady in The Producers). Here is the bizarre pantomime of sex, from which Bu?uel often subtracts the eroticism. To quote the old maxim, they are like the dancers who look insane if you can t hear the music. S verine s hoodlum client Marcel (Pierre Cl menti) looks at her off-camera naked body and weirdly murmurs:  Shame you only have two of them  Sometimes there are moments that might not be imaginary. S verine visits a chateau with grounds like the one she saw in her dreams, to participate in an erotic ritual for a wealthy recluse. We see S verine and her husband alone on a weirdly empty beach, and for a moment it isn t clear if this is another dream or if they have just taken a holiday. But the keys to it all are the two disquieting moments when S verine is assailed by memories of her childhood. In one she is being abused and molested by a man and too scared to cry out. In another, she is in church, refusing to take communion, clearly because she feels defiled by this unseen grownup. She is not in a state of grace. And now, decades later, she can make amends by abasing and degrading herself. Bu?uel cleverly introduces the character of Madame Anais s 13-year-old niece in one scene, and for a woozy moment, it isn t clear if this is another flashback to S verine s youth.And above all this, there is a shrewd commentary on the hypocrisy of social relations and sexual politics. Bu?uel invites us to ponder the transgression of a respectable woman secretly being a prostitute in the afternoons. But wait. How about a respectable gentleman secretly visiting a prostitute in the afternoon? That happens all the time. Quite normal. The gender stereotype opposition feels like the bowler-hatted man in the Magritte painting seeing his own back in the mirror. A strange, and captivating film.																																											