The secret world of Ray Middlesworth and colleagues opens to the public for the first time on Monday as tiny trains begin to run again through tunnels deep under , this time carrying people rather than sacks of mail.Middlesworth himself   one of three engineers who kept the Mail Rail complex dry and safe even after the system was abandoned in 2003 and the network was mothballed   retired a fortnight ago, but it is his recorded voice the visitors will hear in the trains, explaining his extraordinary workplace. His last works vehicle has become a museum piece, having seen even longer service than his 30 years. The locomotive was built when the Mail Rail first opened in 1927, to carry post through narrow curving tunnels six miles across the city between Paddington and Liverpool Street stations, stopping off at sorting offices along the way. It was battery powered so that maintenance crews could get to a troublespot even in the event of a power failure, and long after all the parts became obsolete Middlesworth made replacements to keep the loco running   some of his tinfoil and fuse wire repairs are still visible.Adrian Steel, director of the gleaming new behind Mount Pleasant in Clerkenwell, once one of the largest sorting offices in the world, of which the Mail Rail is part, described the public interest as  phenomenal . All the train tickets for September have already sold out.Visitors will ride on two new trains, near-replicas of the originals but with (slightly) padded seats and better suspension. In the early stages of the project there were test runs with volunteers on the original rolling stock, which was never designed to carry human freight, and it was decided that the ride was so tooth-rattlingly uncomfortable it was impossible to use them.In the museum space beside the tracks there is a gleaming green locomotive that appears to have survived since 1927 in mysteriously mint condition. The explanation is one of the embarrassing secrets now revealed to the public gaze: before the service started, one of Middlesworth s predecessors claimed the trains were too fat for the tunnels. Nonsense, his superiors insisted, and they launched the service   but he was proved right as the trains, loaded down with sacks, were unable to make the tight turns and got stuck. The system had to shut down again while new trains were built.One of the eeriest points of the journey is where riders can look down through an arch into a lower tunnel, tightly packed with old trains parked and gathering dust. Dozens more sleep in a stretch under Oxford Street, after it was judged too expensive to try to extract them.In the 1930s the last survivor of an even earlier system was discovered in a tunnel: a single battered car from the Victorian pneumatic railway, where compressed air was used to drive the trains through tunnels. The system proved expensive and unreliable, and ran only between 1863 and 1874, with many delays while trains stuck in tunnels were hauled free.At its 20th-century height, the Mail Rail carried four million letters a day. During the second world war, when a bomb damaged a tunnel in the Blitz, it was out of service for only a day. It became obsolete as the smaller sorting offices with rail platforms closed and were sold off. The Mail Rail closed in 2003 but the tunnels were maintained by Middlesworth and his two colleagues in case anyone ever thought of a new use for them   a mushroom farm was once proposed, and when Boris Johnson was London mayor he once urged their conversion into a cycle superhighway.The new museum displays part of a vast collection covering 500 years of postal history, including the first roadside postbox, designed by a then unknown young post office worker and author called Anthony Trollope, and a priceless sheet of Penny Black stamps. Another display deals with one of the more unusual delays to the post, when a lioness attacked one of the four horses drawing the Exeter-to-London mail coach on 20 October 1816. A Newfoundland dog then attacked the lioness, saving the horses and the terrified passengers. The enterprising owner of the travelling menagerie from which the lioness had escaped bought the horse and the dog and toured all three animals for years.