The singer s first-ever retrospective includes artefacts from the tour, his Raspberry Beret cloud suit from 1985 and more.  There are several countries that meant a lot to him. I know London was one of his favourites,  explained his sister Tyka Nelson.  It s the perfect place to start the exhibition.   is at the O2, in London, from 27 October.Already billed as  unmissable  by the great Mary Beard, this show, at Oxford s Ashmolean museum from 19 October, examines the artistic roots of five major world religions; Christ, it will be revealed, was once portrayed as clean-shaven, while Buddha was represented by mere footprints and hands.Two great homecomings for leading British talent are ahead: Simon Rattle s arrival from Berlin to take up the baton as music director of the London Symphony Orchestra is marked by This is Rattle, 11 days of special concerts at the Barbican Centre, LSO St Luke s and the Guildhall School s Milton Court concert hall, while, for ballet fans, Akram Khan s acclaimed  returns to Sadler s Wells on 20 September, before travelling to the Liverpool Empire.Big autumn art shows abound, with arriving at the Royal Academy on 3 October, C zanne at the National Gallery from 26 October, and the work of the late New York artist Jean-Michel Basquiat explodes on to the walls of the Barbican s gallery from 21 September in , his first major show in this country. Yet a strong pull is exerted too from outside London, with the reopening of Tate St Ives on 14 October. British sculptor Rebecca Warren, a 2006 Turner prize nominee, will fill the new Cornish space with her first solo show in a national museum. The unseen work includes large bronzes, steel and neon figures and collages.The scrum surrounding the opening of the Broadway mega-hit  at the Victoria Palace threatens to dominate the West End from November. Less high-profile but equally safe artistic bets include Hull Truck theatre s staging of Tanika Gupta s adaptation of  in the UK City of Culture and James Graham s new political jousting match . But interest is surely most piqued by , Terry Johnson s new play, starring Robert Lindsay and Claire Skinner, about British cinematographer Jack Cardiff, at the Hampstead theatre. Lindsay plays Cardiff,  the man who made women look beautiful , from 6 September.Autumn cheer is heading your way in the rumpled form of comic anti-hero Larry David.  The world needs him now more than ever,  reads the Sky Atlantic tagline as the network, despite the hacking and leaking of a few of the 10 new episodes, prepares to launch a ninth series of HBO s dyspeptic  from 1 October. Many of  s key supporting actors are involved, with appearances expected from Jeff Garlin, Susie Essman and Cheryl Hines, as well as from Ted Danson, Mary Steenburgen and Richard Lewis, who all play themselves again.On 15 September US space engineers will send    which has been studying the planet Saturn and its moons for almost two decades   on its final manoeuvre. They will direct the craft to spiral into the planet s atmosphere where it will be destroyed   bringing to an end one of the most successful planetary missions ever undertaken. Cassini s achievements included the release of a small, European-built probe, Huygens, which landed successfully on Saturn s largest moon, Titan, revealing the seas of ethane and methane that cover its surface.The 50th anniversary of the publication of  falls on 12 October. In the book, wrote about humans in the same way that scientists describe other animals   thus offending a great many sensibilities. Among Morris s claims was the assertion that  not only has the largest brain of all higher primates, but also the highest ratio of penis size to body mass   while the more rounded shape of human female breasts means they are mainly a sexual signalling device rather than simply a means for providing milk for infants. Expect more controversy as the anniversary approaches.At least 700,000 people a year die from, and if nothing is done this number could rise to 10 million a year by 2050, costing the global economy up to $100 trillion and pushing a further 28.3 million people into extreme poverty. That is the background to a major international conference   held in Berlin on 12-13 October   that has been set up by, the UN and the UK government. The aim is to coordinate a cohesive international campaign backed by government, private and philanthropic sources to halt the spread of anti-microbial resistance.Results from one of the most controversial scientific projects of recent years   the use of gene editing techniques to alter the makeup of human embryos   are expected to be released before Christmas. The work, approved by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (the fertility treatment regulator), will be carried out by biologist Kathy Niakan at the Francis Crick Institute, London. She plans to alter genes active in the days after fertilisation; experiments cease after seven days, and the embryos destroyed. The aim is to help develop treatments for infertility.England s efforts start in Brisbane on 23 November: a tough ask because 1) Australia haven t lost a Test there since 1988; 2) It will be sub-tropical. In an effort to acclimatise, the pre-Ashes friendlies include a four-day affair in the heat of Townsville in northern Queensland. The series, on BT these days rather than Sky, is preceded by the Women s Ashes: Australia adapting to life without injured star Meg Lanning. The first women s one-day international is on 22 October, also in Brisbane.Russia 2018 is looming. England, first in European qualifying Group F, play Malta on Friday in the first of their final four games; Scotland in fourth go to Lithuania. In Group D, third-placed Wales face Austria on Saturday; the Republic of Ireland in second go to Georgia. And Northern Ireland, second in C, play San Marino on Friday. Nine European group winners qualify, the best eight runners-up facing play-offs in November. The draw for the finals is at the Kremlin on 1 December.Four months after the home unions united for the Lions rugby tour, they split again for the fierce end-of-year series. The backdrop has shifted hemispheres, too: England hosting Australia, Argentina and Samoa at Twickenham in November; Scotland facing Samoa, New Zealand and Australia at Murrayfield; Wales playing Australia, Georgia, New Zealand and South Africa at the Principality; and Ireland facing South Africa, Fiji and Argentina at the Aviva Stadium. Raising the curtain: the 4 November the Barbarians versus the All Blacks.It s that time of year when title contenders start to strut or stumble, and managers start being sacked. Among the key autumn fixtures: Chelsea hosting Manchester City on 30 September then Manchester United on 5 November; Liverpool playing Chelsea at Anfield on 25 November; and, on 9 December, a pre-Christmas six-pointer/festive personality clash: Jos  Mourinho versus Pep Guardiola in the Manchester derby at Old Trafford. Expect hype.With the heavily pregnant Serena Williams absent, the women s competition in New York is as open as it was at Wimbledon, with one notable addition: 2006 champion  since her 15-month drug ban.  Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal face a field minus the injured Novak Djokovic, Milos Raonic, Stan Wawrinka and Kei Nishikori. Andy Murray is second seed   but how will his hip hold up? It all starts tomorrow.It s a subtle thing, the difference between the way you ll wear your coat when it gets cold next month, compared with the way you wore it last winter. And the difference is the belt. Wide or thin, cinched tight over massive coats, as well as dainty jumpers, wafty dresses and even shirts, this season you use a belt like control underwear. If you need to hold your coat together and also hold your keys, thanks to Gucci, .After 25 years as editor, Alexandra Shulman announced her  Vrexit  in January, but it s not until November that we ll see the first issue under Edward Enninful, the first black, and first male, editor in the magazine s 100-year history. He has hired film-maker Steve McQueen and models Naomi Campbell, Kate Moss and Adwoa Aboah as contributing editors and, in what the  described as a  posh girl exodus , said goodbye to many  veterans.We ve been saying it for a while, but this time, THIS time, it s true. There s a huge growth in demand for vegetarian, vegan and  free from  options. This Christmas is set to be. Expect more vegan street food festivals, and watch as ingredients such as jackfruit (a breadfruit family native to south India, widely used as a meat alternative) get a supermarket push.Raise a glass to  mindful drinking . Young people are drinking less than their parents (fewer than half of those aged 16 to 24 report drinking alcohol in the previous week compared with 66% of those aged 45 to 64) and helping usher in this new form of mindfulness. It s not quite teetotalism, it s not quite  not. There are mindful pub crawls, around venues with decent selections of low-alcohol drinks, and since a mindful drinking festival in August, a whole community of gentle drinkers is beginning to emerge.Honestly, wear a hat. They ll be everywhere, after Dior s leather berets, Loewe s bread printed sou westers and Coach s furry caps. Also: socks. If you re not already wearing socks, wear socks. This season is basically your nan hassling you before you leave for the park.There s so much to get through in  negotiations in so little time that even before August is over talks resume in Brussels on Monday. The EU s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said he will not allow any discussion of trade issues until substantial progress has been made on the thorny matters of money, the Irish border and the rights of EU citizens in the UK post-Brexit. But there is no sign of agreement on any of these issues as the clock ticks towards an EU exit in March 2019. The time for both sides to make hard choices is approaching just as the full complexity starts to dawn.After a better-than-expected result in June s snap general election, Jeremy Corbyn will receive a hero s welcome from Labour supporters in Brighton (from 24 September), even from a good many who doubted him. The party will, though, want to look forward as well as back.By contrast Theresa May will arrive in Manchester on 1 October with her political tail between her legs. The damaging June election and Brexit divides the Conservatives more by the day. Any hint that May is backing away from the  hard Brexit  she promoted a year ago will anger the right of her party. Last year she looked all-powerful during the conference season. This year she needs the speech of her life to shore up her weakened power base.The chancellor has replaced autumn statements with a full budget. No date has yet been set for this year s, but it will be a key event. Hammond messed up his first budget and had to perform a hasty U-turn on reforms to national insurance within days. Since then he has made himself unpopular with many in his own party by pushing for a pro-business, soft Brexit and warning of disastrous consequences unless transitional agreements are reached. May s election fiasco, paradoxically, saved Hammond from the sack (she was too weak to get rid of him). His second budget will be a key test of the economy s   and Hammond s   resilience as Brexit approaches, and of whether the Chancellor himself has continued to repair his power base at May s expense.The fall of the Islamic State s most important stronghold in Syria is said to be imminent. After Isis was ousted from its Iraqi bastion in Mosul, this will mark a decisive end to the group s claims to establish a new caliphate. But it will not be the end of Isis. And the fall of Raqqa will set the stage for a struggle to control territory by the Syrian regime and a host of outside players, including Russia, Iran, Turkey and the US.Donald Trump and Emmanuel Macron will both deliver maiden speeches on 19 September to the UN general assembly   historically a platform for politicians who aspire to global leadership. It will be high theatre and a study in contrasts: the US president vowing to break from the customary civilities and assert US superiority against a young, urbane European urging a resumption of collective effort to save the planet.It s now Germany s turn to weather the dyspeptic mood rippling across Europe. On 24 September, Angela Merkel and her Christian Democratic Union should emerge from parliamentary elections as the strongest force, followed by some distance by the Social Democrats. The anti-immigrant AfD has been on the wane since the peak of the refugee crisis, but it could still cross the 5% threshold for guaranteed Bundestag representation.One of the most carefully orchestrated political events on earth is likely to be a raw display of power this October/ November. It will consolidate Xi Jinping s grip on power as China s most powerful leader since Mao Zedong, and comes at a time when China is asserting its role as a global power player, challenging the US and its allies in the Pacific.It is called the October Revolution, because Tsarist Russia was using the Julian calendar at the time. On 7 November   100 years on from the turning point in world history that ushered in the 70-year Soviet experiment   Russians will have a lot to reflect on. And for once, their government will not be telling them what to think.