The summer of love is perhaps most closely associated with San Francisco s hippy movement, which reached its zenith in 1967, but a similar phenomenon was seen in many other parts of the world that year, particularly in .It was a summer during which Procol Harum released , The Beatles put out All You Need is Love, and Pink Floyd were playing psychedelic gigs at the UFO Club in Tottenham Court Road.The small patch of of green dotted with park benches in the middle of Mayfair is one of the West End s most expensive and exclusive areas. The square was named after John Berkeley, 1st Lord of Berkeley of Stratton, who took possession of the land to the north of his newly acquired house in Piccadilly in 1675.One of the large plane trees opposite Berkeley House was estimated in 2008 to be worth ?750,000.The shopping street in the West End is . Carnaby Street was pedestrianised in the 1970s and is still a major shopping street home to more than 50 independent restaurants and bars and 150 shops.Lord John, which opened its first store on the street, went on to become an international chain of menswear shops, which were eventually sold and became Next stores. Jimi Hendrix s iconic military jacket was bought in 1967 at a shop in the area called I was Lord Kitchener s Valet. Today the street is still home to brands such as the Dutch fashion label ST.studio. Running parallel to Carnaby Street, Newburgh Street forms the boundary of what is known as the Newburgh Quarter, where fashionable concept stores and classic tailors sit alongside traditional pubs such as the White Horse. Now pedestrianised and cobbled, back in 1967 it was a tarmacked road.Originally just a winding country path called Green Lane, the road took its name from Porto Bello Farm, in the area now known as Golborne Road. It in turn was named after the port of Portobelo in Panama, captured by the British from the Spanish in 1739.Portobello Road is famous for its weekend antiques market, which evolved after  rag and bone  men began selling their wares at the market in the 1940s. Though the surrounding areas were rapidly gentrified from the 1980s, the market retains its energy and charm.The square was established in 1670 and is named after Robert Sidney, 2nd Earl of Leicester. Originally an upscale residential area, retail stores and theatres made their home there in the 19th century, many of which were converted to cinemas in the 20th century.It was refurbished extensively for the 2012 Olympics and has a park in its centre; in 1967 it was a roundabout. The Empire Theatre in the original 1967 photograph was showing Night Must Fall with . The Mecca dancehall is now owned by Cineworld.The circus was built in 1819 to connect Regent Street with Piccadilly. The junction s first electronic advertisements, for which it is famous worldwide, first appeared in 1910.In the rare colour image from 1967, a billboard advertises , starring Vanessa Redgrave and David Hemmings, which was showing at the Pavilion Theatre. Originally a music hall, it was rebuilt as a theatre in 1885, converted to a cinema in the 1930s, and is now a shopping arcade and part of the Trocadero centre.Arthur Lasenby Liberty s shop on Great Marlborough Street opened in 1875 selling ornaments, fabric and . The Tudor storefront was rebuilt in the 1920s from the timbers of the ships HMS Impregnable and HMS Hindustan. It is a Grade II*-listed building, which explains why little has changed. In March 1967, a large Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament demonstration was organised to protest against government s policy on the Vietnam War. As there were no gates at Downing Street at the time, police officers lined up to protect the entrance to the prime minister s residence.																																											