The superlative Suranne Jones continues to shine as the doctor who is busy treating patients, wondering what her ex-husband is hiding and quaffing those big glasses of wine. Foster is investigating why her son got into a fight with his schoolfriend, but with Simon s phone looking ripe for surreptitious inspection, will she discover his secrets? Jones plays the wronged woman to perfection, with lots of soapy intrigue, twists and one hell of an angry face. Caramel week coaxes us stickily into week four, with nine bakers still in contention. The three challenges that Prue Leith and Paul Hollywood set for the contestants are to assemble a sweet twist on a teatime mainstay, manage a double Dutch technical and produce a caramel showstopper. Noel Fielding hosts with Sandi Toksvig, whose culinary compering skills have come a long way from the weekly Sandwich Quiz on 80s kids show No 73. The series spotlighting the efforts of RNLI lifeboats around the UK continues with more tales of everyday heroism recounted direct to camera, in rather startling fashion, by the volunteers themselves. Instead of stagey reconstructions, actual incident footage is pulled from their helmet cams, adding both urgency and an authentic oceanic wobble. In tonight s instalment, crews from Dover, Mudeford and Tenby respond to panicked callouts. There are any number of shows about vintage motors, but vintage motorists? Not so much. Elderly drivers getting reassessed here include John William Quince, who, after decades living in Spain, can t wait to hare down Britain s motorways again at 95. Years old, that is, not miles per hour. Still, he s positively a toddler compared with fellow test-taker and former England cricketer Eileen Ash, 105, who wants to take her beloved Mini for another spin. This cult-series-in-waiting never quite got the viewing numbers it deserved, but we ll miss it when it s gone. The Victorian setting and cast suggest a Horrible Histories sketch (and even more so now, with HH s Ben Willbond as dashing French surgeon Patrice Dupont), but the script from Rev s James Wood has moments of emotional acuity amid the gags and gore. In this series finale, Dr Hendrick (Rupert Everett) himself is about to go under the knife. Of all the nations whose citizens volunteered to fight fascism in the Spanish civil war, none made a proportionately greater contribution than Scotland. This absorbing two-part doc is based around previously unseen interviews with Scottish veterans. It is a vivid depiction not only of the war in Spain, but also of the Scotland of the 1930s   and the reasons why hundreds of young Scots decided Spain s struggle was theirs. Andrew MuellerIn scenes uncannily reminiscent of BBC4 s 2016 series UK s Best Part-Time Band, storied producer Tony Visconti continues his trawl of the pubs, clubs and rehearsal rooms of Britain. He s looking for some undiscovered talents to interpret songs from his past, made famous by the notable likes of Morrissey, Marc Bolan and, of course, David Bowie. Tonight, he s in northern England and Scotland checking out buskers, basement rockers and an unusual rock n roll cellist. This Palme d Or-winning love story is an astonishingly intense portrait of quivering youthful passion, and much of that is down to the luminous performances of Kechiche s two young stars. Ad le (Ad le Exarchopoulos) is a thoughtful high-school girl who becomes fascinated with the more mature and intellectual art student Emma (L a Seydoux). Their ardent relationship is laid bare not just in explicit, utterly honest sex scenes, but in the camera s closeup focus on their enraptured faces. This is a vibrant, deeply touching romance.Their hilarious debut with the zombie-slacker comedy Shaun of the Dead was a hard act to follow, but Wright and co-writer/star Simon Pegg pulled it off with this fall-about parody of the US action movie. It s set in a quiet Somerset village, but that doesn t stop odd cops Pegg and Nick Frost reworking every crime movie cliche in the Hollywood handbook.This second instalment in the impressive prequel series has rebel chimp Caesar (Andy Serkis) and his CGI cohorts living free and relatively untroubled in the forest until they encounter an encampment of human survivors, led by Gary Oldman s pragmatic Dreyfus. The primates of both sides mull over issues of trust, peace and war before an awesome battle commences. The first game of the five-match series from Old Trafford. 12noon, Sky Sports Cricket The opening qualifier from Prenton Park, Tranmere. 6.30pm, BBC2 Coverage of the third-round match from the King Power Stadium. 7.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event