The woman in the picture is my grandmother, Sofia. You may wonder what is so special about a woman standing in the rain in front of ? Well, the fact that in 1977, when the picture was taken, my grandparents lived in the Socialist Republic of Romania. It was almost impossible to travel to the  decadent  west. Luckily, my well-connected grandfather was able to pull some strings. They were granted permission to join a bus tour of northern Italy. They weren t allowed to take my father (who was 17 at the time) with them. The authorities feared that they might?defect, so one important family member had to be left behind.My grandparents were not allowed a?lot of foreign currency, either. Not even enough to satisfy little whims. For instance, a few days before this picture was taken, my grandparents had been in Venice and it was very hot. After much hesitation, my grandfather bought himself an ice-cream cone   and it was the best he had ever had! Unfortunately, after only a few bites, he dropped it on to the pavement in a?moment of inattention. My grandmother told me, many years later, what a long look he threw the splayed ice-cream, as if considering whether to scoop it up again. He didn t   but nor did he buy another one. This story always broke my heart.In 2003, my father and I visited my grandmother in Constan?a. We talked of travelling to Italy that year. She remembered her own extraordinary trip and told us how, of all the cities she?saw, Florence had been her favourite. Florence. Yes. We would go to Florence. Except we didn t. My grandmother died a few weeks after our conversation; my parents cancelled all our holiday plans.We didn t travel to Tuscany until 2011. It was the last holiday I ever went?on with my parents   but I could not know then about the heart attack that would brutally tear my father from life not long after. However, at the time, we were terribly happy to walk the same streets and piazzas my grandparents had walked 34 years before, as unlikely as it seemed. We fell in love with bits and pieces of Florence: the Uffizi, the Piazza della Signoria, Ponte Vecchio, but, most of all, with Santa Maria del Fiore. I remembered my grandmother saying it, as if it were the name of a long-lost love:  . Whenever I hear the song La Bamba by Trini L pez it takes me back to a hot summer night in Cape Town in the 1960s. It must have been the middle of summer, as it was late, but still light and very hot. The heat and sun were still radiating through my sun-filter curtains, which were patterned with black and white poodles. Poodles were very popular at that time. I was about three and could not sleep. I wondered down the hallway to the lounge where?my parents were having a party with our neighbours. There was no television and none of them were well off, so they took turns going to each other s homes.They would dance to music on the reel-to-reel tape recorder, hold Tupperware parties, or play cards with beans for betting using an old sheet with ballpoint pen drawings to make it?into a card table. Food included sausages with cheese or cheese with pickled onions on toothpicks, stuffed eggs and peanuts.I recall the slight sense of trepidation I felt, as I was not supposed to be up. However, when I?reached the lounge, my father swept me up in his arms, and, singing in time to the music, danced with me to La Bamba. I recall feeling safe and happy. Everyone was dancing and singing to the music.My father died quite young, but this memory, my sense of feeling loved and a love of dancing, that I think started then, have always stayed with me. As a?psychologist, I know how special it is to have had a relationship like this with a parent and this song reminds me of the love, the warmth and the fun-loving qualities of my father.I was born in 1948 in Leicester, and my father was a bank clerk. He came home on the bus for dinner (it wasn t called lunch) at 12.50pm, left at 1.30pm, then reappeared at 6.50pm. At dinner, the table was laid with a seersucker cloth, and there were two courses. Dad would only ever eat one sprout, but he especially liked steamed puddings with Bird s custard.At about 6pm we had high tea   tinned spaghetti or poached egg or baked beans on toast made under the grill. There was one tea that could only?happen when the fire was lit at weekends in the winter. It was a treat?called hot buttered toast, and if it?had been written down it would definitely have had capital letters for every word.Dad was in charge of the fire; he held a newspaper tight over the fireplace with his arms outstretched to get it to take, then he stoked the fire until there?was a bed of red coals. The sparks?crawling over the back of the fireplace were children running home from school.A large battered saucepan was half-filled with boiling water, a chipped Pyrex dish sat on top with a lid, and it was placed ready on the hearth. We knelt in front of the fire as if we were worshipping, jostling for position with slabs of white bread poked on to a?toasting fork, and held them to the heat. They ended up as patchy golden pieces of toast   when they weren t fatally burned or dropped into the fire. It was a serious business. My mother buttered the pieces and slipped them under the lid, until there was a heap of crisp, soggy deliciousness steaming up the glass.My mother brought in a jug with sticks of celery in water, and a piece of?cheap cheddar that she had wrapped in a cloth soaked in vinegar in the larder for a few days to strengthen the?flavour. The trick was to take the piece of toast from the bottom of the pile, nearest to the hot water. A sliver of cheese fitted into the groove of the celery, and the toast disappeared rapidly from the bowl, only to be replaced with more. The last pieces were spread with Robertson s jam, Marmite or Bovril.Having brought up two children on a low income, I can only admire my mother s ability to make such a feast out of very little. I can still smell the buttery toast, and taste its crunch and its squishy centre. It still feels like the biggest treat there could be.																																											