There are some purchases you make that surprise you into realising you ve grown old. I m not talking about the more obviously desperate items of dependency you find in the far corners of pharmacies. No, I m referring to zip-up cardigans, nonslip shoes that you don t have to lace, money trays, keyring holders with built-in torches, the Sunday Telegraph, historical novels. Not definitive markers of obsolescence, but first intimations of mortality.In my case, it s a backpack. I know the young wear backpacks, but they don t wear them in the spirit of shame in which I wear mine. The young fling them with insouciance over one shoulder, which my physiotherapist (another intimation of mortality) tells me is bad for the spine. So I strap myself rigidly into my backpack as though I m sending myself on an Age Concern package holiday and have all the cucumber sandwiches I ll need while I m away. I couldn t look worse if I wore a vest.That it should come to this after all the elegant briefcases I ve owned and loved and polished: my professor s Leonhard Heyden Salisbury, capacious enough to carry the complete works of Kafka and Kundera; my battered cognac Bridge bag for literary festivals; my svelte Jasper Blue Fabriano folio case that holds a single Point Of View for Radio 4. Bags denoting confidence and authority.But they either hold too little when I m travelling abroad, or weigh too much. It used not to matter: I had the memory not to need to carry lecture notes, and I had the strength to toss Kafka and Kundera into an overhead locker. Now, if I m to travel anywhere with more than a couple of sheets of A4, I must be backpacked.Rucksacks, we used to call them in the days we traversed inhospitable terrain. By  we , I mean other people. I have an aversion to the accoutrements of adventure, so won t be carrying rolled-up groundsheets and gunmetal water bottles. In their absence, I am less of a danger to fellow travellers   and where, you might ask, is the joy of wearing a backpack if you can t smash into people with it? But that s just another reason I look wrong in mine. I m too obviously peaceable. I don t cycle for the same reason.Time s whirligig brings in its revenges. The last time I carried a bag on my back, it was a school satchel and I wore a cap. No wonder I m ashamed. A man should not look like a boy. I strapped on my backpack for a journey two weeks ago, anyway, and expected people to point at me in the airport and laugh. But here s the worst thing: they didn t. You know you re getting old when people don t notice you look a prat.