 s new film is a ravishing 60s-set romance, sweet, sad and sexy. It s about two lonely hearts who like to meet up during lunch break at work, passing food back and forth and listening to records on a portable turntable. Together, they overcome their impediments and start merrily bounding over all the hurdles in their path   such as the fact that lovelorn Elisa is mute, unable to speak since she was a child. Or that her boyfriend has fins and gills and lives underwater, like the Creature from the Black Lagoon. The course of true love was never meant to run smooth.I confess that I ve been agnostic about Del Toro in the past   filing the Mexican film-maker away as an ideas man; a director who shoots for the moon only to fall slightly short. But I really liked The Shape of Water, which plays in competition here at Venice. It feels less of a fevered artistic exercise than his other recent work; more seamless and successful in the way it orders its material. Yes, Del Toro s latest flight of fancy sets out to liberally pastiche the postwar monster movie, doffing its cap to the incident at Roswell and all manner of related cold war paranoia. But it s warmer and richer than the films that came before. Beneath that glossy, scaly surface is a beating heart. gives a lovely, limber performance as Elisa, the cleaner at a shady Baltimore laboratory, swabbing out the toilets alongside the hard-bitten Zelda (Octavia Spencer).  Some of the best minds in the country,  sniffs Zelda disapprovingly,  and they still pee all over the floor in here.  Then one morning a big metal tank is wheeled into the basement. It contains an exotic amphibian, mute like Elisa and recently fished from a South American river. The creature is dangerous   it devours cats and human fingers. But Elisa is entranced and takes to stealing downstairs whenever she has time to spare, placing hard-boiled eggs on the rim of the tank and waiting for the beast to come and eat his lunch.The Shape of Water isn t simply a romance, but a B-movie thriller as well   which naturally means the clandestine meetings can t last. Prowling the corridors, swinging his nightstick, is  s Strickland, a brutal government goon who styles himself as the monster s tormentor-in-chief.  That thing we keep in there is an affront,  he barks at the cleaners.  You know what that means?  So Elisa finds herself embroiled in a three-way tug-of-war. Strickland wants to dissect the beast; the Soviets want to capture it. So Elisa embarks on a fraught rescue mission   aided at various turns by the redoubtable Zelda and her middle-aged, gay best friend (Richard Jenkins), who lives in the apartment next door.Let s gloss over the notion that a minimum-wage cleaner would be allowed unfettered access to such a fantastical beast, never mind embark on a scheme that involves spiriting him out, into the midst of Baltimore, concealed inside a linen trolley. Del Toro provides just enough spade-work to keep the scheme plausible and his film is stylish and charming; red meat for the senses with some sugar on top.Who can say whether these two star-crossed lovers will find their own perfect ending? The odds remain stacked against them, while the motto on the wall calendar strikes a cautionary note.  Life,  it reminds us,  is just the shipwreck of our plans.  But in the meantime here they are, lying low inside a flea-bitten apartment, like Robert Redford and Jane Fonda in Barefoot in the Park. Elisa is happy and horny and very nearly free. She used to begin every working day by masturbating in the bath. She now has an exciting new partner waiting for her in the tub. 																																											