They call themselves the Black Beatles, but the Fab Two are so much better than that. For a start, instead of She Loves You, they shot to fame with the far more relevant lyric:  She think she love me/ I think she trollin.  Secondly, for the first cut from , they ve taken everything great about their mega-hit and magnified it: more spacey, more sinister, more playful and, if possible, more hypnotic   like a codeine nightmare in a branch of Laser Quest.Ever since the Blackberry Messenger era s Annie Lennox split from her Dave Stewart, we ve been willing her to write her own Walking on Broken Glass. Sadly, the  co-founder s new one isn t even a Little Bird. Angling for the big emotional haymaker, her bawling actually ends up sounding like Purity Ring. Not a good thing.This is comfort food, of course. But unlike , his previous solo work ( the cops are taking over/ While everyone s in yoga ) and 74% of the tracks he managed to place on Oasis records, it is at least genuinely soothing. Featuring the usual plaintive apology due to be interpreted as  directed at Noel , this is a winnowing of Liam s Lennon-obsession into something as off-the-peg yet dapper as a Pretty Green shacket.Like the Ramones of MOR, Adam Granduciel s outfit has just one song, but it s a really good one. The lashings of starry-wonder will keep the hater fraternity rolling their eyes like slot machines, and yes, it carries no surprises bar a guitar solo with some hoity-toity harmonics. But they re still the one new act you and your dad can really bond over.Pink was one of the first pop stars to be  real . Remember that song about divorce? Hey   she invented self-therapising navel-gazing as a trope of pop. But after a five-year absence, it is our displeasure to report that  stinks. This is like the worst sort of Katy Perry anthemics about how we re all just  rockets pointed up at the stars . Yet it s the riots-themed video that s the real biscuit-taker   a Kendall Jenner Pepsi commercial of spray-on now.