This anthology series of Philip K Dick adaptations begins, in noirish fashion, in a bleak near-future in which telepaths ( Teeps ) coexist, uneasily, with Normals (non-mind readers). Starring Richard Madden and Holliday Grainger, the staging is a twist on the mismatched buddy-cop formula. It s satisfyingly crepuscular and, for a story written in the early 50s, has plenty to say about the information-saturated yet disconnected present.  Last year, Kevin Herbert collected the crown for his amazing West Wing, a recycled marvel you d be perfectly happy to live in. In among this year s finalists for eco and budget sheds is Chris Law and Julie Ann Marchant s Tiny House, built for  1,000. With features including a downstairs toilet and fitted kitchen, it s become a full-time home for the couple. Other candidates include a Woodland Stargazer, and a replica Hobbit hole.  Choosing the prospect of an interesting case over financial remuneration, Strike goes to work on behalf of Leonora Quine, wife of gruesomely murdered novelist Owen. Trouble is, plenty of people had a motive to kill a writer who made enemies freely. Meantime, Robin chafes at the constraints of her PA role and faces a dilemma. Hugely entertaining, it s a series which pulls off the neat trick of recalling whodunits from the Agatha Christie era without seeming dated. Laura Poitras s documentary chronicles the peculiar life of Julian Assange from the news of rape allegations against him, and through the first six years of his ongoing self-imposed sequestration in Ecuador s embassy in London. Poitras, who also made Citizenfour about whistleblower Edward Snowden, appears to start out admiring Assange, but finds this increasingly difficult as the story unfurls and its subject grows ever more vainglorious. From its inception in 1947, the Magnum photo agency developed an intimate relationship with the cinema. Robert Capa was involved with Ingrid Bergman, enabling him access to Hollywood studios for some candid if stylised snaps. Eve Arnold presented portraits of Marilyn Monroe which presented a more thoughtful, vulnerable alternative to her bombshell image, while more recently, we ve seen Paolo Pellegrin s portraits of Kate Winslet. Reality TV might be over-reliant on extreme circumstances and wacky characters, but this is too far the other way. Five pairs of ordinary Brits with no ballroom dancing experience   three couples, a woman and her gay friend, and a mother and son   embark on intensive training. Can they acquire enough expertise to hold their own on the competitive  Sunday circuit ? Everyone s nice, but with nothing at stake there s no reason to care.  Preventing the Earth s average temperature from increasing by two degrees was the purpose of the Paris Agreement in 2016. This jumbo-sized doc itemises the domino rally of disasters that would follow such a change, exploring a future USA ravaged by unchecked wildfires, persistent flooding and mega-hurricanes. The cut-price CG effects are a bit Sharknado but that might even encourage a certain sceptic-in-chief to tune in. Another charming and engrossing excursion into Andersonland. This one s set in a fictitious coastal town, in 1965, where 12-year-olds Sam (Jared Gilman) and Suzy (Kara Hayward) are in love and run away together. Their actions create a crisis for troubled adults, including Suzy s unhappy parents (Bill Murray, Frances McDormand), lonely police chief Bruce Willis, scout leader Ed Norton and icy social services officer Tilda Swinton. Sean Connery returns as James Bond after a 12-year break. It also goes back to the earlier, crunchier style ( I hope this is a return to more gratuitous sex and violence,  as Alec McCowen s Q puts it), before the special effects ran riot. The Thunderball-ish plot has 007 tackling an impressively villainous trio: Max von Sydow s Blofeld, Klaus Maria Brandauer s Max Largo and Barbara Carrera s voluptuous Fatima Blush. The late Jerry Lewis proved himself a fine actor in Scorsese s dark satirical comedy. Lewis is legendary TV showman Jerry Langford, who is stalked by Robert De Niro s weirdo superfan Rupert Pupkin. Abetted by the equally disturbed Masha (Sandra Bernhard), Pupkin, a wannabe king of standup, hatches a plot to kidnap Langford to win TV primetime. It s an excruciatingly uncomfortable study of sad fantasy and sinister reality.  The opening game in a five-match series. 8.50am, Sky Sports Cricket First of two big games, with Rooney s Everton returning to Old Trafford at 4pm. 12.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event Can Lewis Hamilton maintain his hot streak? 12.35pm, Channel 4