This might sound a strange thing to say of a show that blew up Tom Cruise, revealed God to be an impostor and killed off pretty much its entire supporting cast in the finale, but season one of Preacher was disappointingly tame. Sure, compared to other TV shows it was a wild ride (that angel fight in the motel room was like nothing else you ve ever seen), but compared with the comic book series on which it s based, it was pretty safe. Now, though, after the ratings success of season one, it s thrown itself headfirst into the sordid, blasphemous, offensive-to-everyone world of Garth Ennis and  s comic.The latest episode pushed the envelope far enough for the Christian right to take notice. It was essentially trolling them for the whole episode. It opened with a graphic sex scene in which Jesus was asked to put his finger up a woman s bum, the birth of Jesus s illegitimate child and the reveal that his direct (but heavily inbred) descendent is a simpleton named Humperdoo. Oh, and the Pope turned up too, to give a bizarre speech about how God is busy creating a new 10ft-tall species with a honey badger s sense of smell. You have to suspect the Preacher producers were eagerly awaiting . You simply can t buy the sort of publicity a boycott will get you.Normally I m not your hard-to-offend type. I ve been called a snowflake more than once, and ranted about Game of Thrones  dubious use of rape. But there is something about the OTT ridiculousness of Preacher that keeps it on the right side of funny, even if you re giggling through gasps. The Jesus sex scene featured an Austin Powers-style shadow play depicting sexual positions that I don t believe are physically possible. In an earlier episode, when a prostitute mix-up results in chief villain/best character ever Herr Starr being  sodomised  by three  ruffians , as he puts it, the whole thing is played for laughs. But the show is careful not to laugh at homosexuality or rape   the comedy comes from the cartoonish characterisation of Herr Starr, his deadpan reactions, and his established ability to derive sexual pleasure from just about anything. In an earlier episode, inmates of hell scorned a fellow damned soul for claiming that his crimes of rape don t really count because it was date rape.  No means no,  another inmate tells him gravely.Speaking of hell, one of the show s main characters is currently Hitler. Hitler in hell. Because if your show is not offensive enough, you can always add Hitler. When he first showed up, and it seemed they would be portraying him as a bullied, almost sympathetic character, I confess I felt the show had gone too far   especially in the age of the  alt-right . But it soon became clear that Preacher is showing Hitler for what he was   a weak, pathetic, self-serving sad-sack. Turning him into an all-powerful villain would have been a mistake; showing him as helpless is exactly the right approach. Preacher isn t just offensive on a religious level (although it did recently shoot a guy dressed as God)   it s got a scattergun fondness for everything that could be considered depraved, disgusting and just plain odd. When searching for God, our heroes are taken to a man on a leash dressed as a dalmatian. The angel Fiore discovered he could make a living by committing gory suicide on stage in Vegas and immediately respawning. I only understand about two thirds of what Cassidy says, but it s all filth. Innocent bystanders die all the bloody time, and Herr Starr once won a fight by masturbating at his opponent.At the same time, Preacher has a strangely sweet core. Poor, arse-faced Eugene is the purest soul TV has ever seen. Jesse Custer might swear and brawl but his religious beliefs are strong and unwavering. In the midst of all the carnage, the brilliant  is telling a touching story of Tulip s PTSD   which is the inevitable result of an encounter with a murderous supernatural being, but something that other fantasy shows brush under the rug. Preacher s darkest moments are rarely the offensive ones. When Cassidy tried to convince Jesse to kill Tulip s husband, knowing it would drive Jesse and Tulip apart, we were given an unsettling glimpse into this funny character s dark heart. Fiore s suicide show stopped being daft the moment we realised he was deeply grieving for his lost partner, DeBlanc. Tulip and Jesse s domestic struggle following her miscarriage and his depression wasn t remotely funny. The show can be as irreverent as it wants, but it still knows how to land the serious moments. When a depressed and drunk Jesse beat his innocent friend to a pulp, it was rightfully portrayed as sickening behaviour   completely different in tone to the cartoonish supernatural fight scenes. So far, the show has managed to walk that tricky tightrope between hilariously offensive and morally responsible.If it keeps up that balancing act, it s on to a winner   and hopefully on to season three. With the Saint of Killers lurking in the swamps and tantalising hints about Jesse s family, it would be a shame if the controversy scared AMC into cancelling a show that, Hitler or not, is unique.																																											