Tiles, carpet fragments, antiques, drawings and paintings voraciously collected by the late Sir  are to appear at auction.Sotheby s has announced it is to sell about 400 items from a collection that shines a fascinating light on how the mind of one of Britain s most distinctive painters worked.Hodgkin, known for his explosively colourful and emotional paintings, . The sale reveals that he was a keen scourer of auctions, identifying objects of beauty he wanted as must-haves and then filling his house in Bloomsbury, London, with them.His partner, the writer Antony Peattie, said there were emotional and practical reasons for the sale.  After he died the house was so sad and all these objects remained in place but, after 33 years that we spent together, everything had changed,  said Peattie. It was so poignant and difficult that everything in the house spoke for Howard and Howard wasn t there to speak for himself, I found that very hard ... I had to start again. Peattie said he did not want the house to be a shrine and he had been persuaded by the former Tate director Sir Nicholas Serota that a Hodgkin museum was a bad idea.  It works for 10 years and then you get into trouble following on ... who runs it? Who s it for? Artist s reputations go and then you ve got this millstone. There is also a practical reason for selling.  Howard wanted to give a lot of money away to people after his death and left a letter of his wishes ... but that presupposes that there is money to give away. Hodgkin made good money from his art but he was not a saver. He liked buying things.  If Howard needed it he bought it, sometimes for a lot of money once he could afford it,  said Peattie.  He didn t believe in bargains and if something was really good he went ahead and paid the price for it. Hodgkin loved auction catalogues, whether from Christie s, Sotheby s or Bonhams as well as auction houses in Salisbury, Lewes, Edinburgh and others in Europe. He would often turn up in person, holding up his pencil until he had won what he wanted.The objects being sold include vibrantly coloured Ottoman, Indian and Islamic tiles, textiles and rugs as well as fragments of calligraphy, Italian pietra dura marbles and prints, mezzotints and engravings.The collection also includes artworks by his friends such as Patrick Caulfield, represented by a blue still life of a sweet bowl, which comes with an estimate of ?300,000-?500,000; a work by , The De-Luxe Tailors (estimate ?250,000-?350,000) and a Peter Blake postcard on a green felt background, which he gave Hodgkin in 1974 (?8,000-?12,000).Peattie said Hodgkin liked the idea of a sale after his death because the objects had served their purpose. They had  in some mysterious way, fed his work .Frances Christie, head of Sotheby s modern British art department, said the Hodgkin collection  really gives you an insight into how his mind worked and what his true passions and personal inspirations and excitements were. When you walk through the house and you see all the objects he collected, suddenly the paintings make even more sense. 																																											