till in his 30s, the brilliant American novelist Joshua Cohen has already published several novels, books of short stories and a masterpiece,  (2010), which is basically two-thirds David Foster Wallace to one third Philip Roth, but somehow adds up to considerably more than the sum of its parts. , his latest novel, combines the same ingredients, but perhaps adds up to rather less.The book begins as the story of David King, the middle-aged proprietor of King s Moving in the New York Tri-state area:  David King the Moving King Will Move Your Mothertrucking Everything . David is a kind of Jewish Tony Soprano, entirely vivid, his politics  aspirational, inferior: he was in favour of contacts, contracts, the right not to diet, and the right to jump lines at dessert stations . David has got?a lot of baggage   literally and metaphorically (David King = King, David, King David, yes?). The son of Holocaust survivors, he is divorced from his wife Bonnie, and his daughter Tammy has decided that Israel is a  criminal regime :  What I learned at NYU was just how psycho Jews are,  she tells him.He also has a vast warehouse full of unclaimed goods,  your possessions repossessed, stored inside concrete pillboxes wallowing in septic and brine . For David,  Throughout all this, what d bolstered him was Israel: the ideal of it, the abstraction. To have?family in the country was to have?the country in the family, the whole entire?country. So things start to get really complicated for David when his 22-year-old cousin, Yoav Matzav, arrives in the US to work for him, fresh from his discharge from the IDF, having served with the  Kivsa Brigade, Akavish Battalion, Tziraah Company, Platoon Bet, Squad Bet   the Death Alley Ewes, the Heroes of Shujaiyeh, the Martyrs of Salah al-Din Road   [not] a special unit, just a specialish unit, not elite, but elite enough . It s like having Israel itself rock up on your doorstep.Yoav brings with him a friend from his unit, Uri, and between them these two young  Raelis  try to make sense of living in America, a country where it s every man for himself.  Yoav would do a full day with a guy who d tell him every detail about fucking his wife, how he fucked her, how she came, how?he came wicked buckets, and then he d just   evaporate: Yoav would never work with him again, no one would ever mention him, no one would even remember [ ] it was Yoav s flaw to regard their transience, and the transience of institutional memory, as rude, because the truth was, it was life. They are employed by David, it turns out, not merely to move furniture but also to evict the unfortunate inhabitants of foreclosed homes; it soon becomes clear that Cohen is establishing a series of parallels between the work of the young Israelis in America and their work back home. Back under the Occupation, there had been shooting and here in America there was no shooting, or none aimed at them. Back under the Occupation, there had been sleepless stretches with nothing to eat and nothing to drink and here in America there were scheduled breaks and just a staggering range of fastfood options for both takeout and delivery. Also, in the IDF they d been able to smash things. If they bumped into a Palestinian chair or desk or even a human intact, they could smash it, they could call in a convoy of Doobi D9s to dismantle and raze, or a formation of F16s to fly in and cave the roofs and blast the walls into sand and sprinkle the foundations with phosphorous   but here in New York, they had to salvage. Otherwise, the work they were doing wasn t too different. It s all rather subtle and intelligent and compelling   and quite brilliantly composed, every page wriggling with little riffs and sallies (when Uri smokes weed, for example, his  brain flew out of his mouth all wet and winged and gooey and purpurogenous , which sounds about right)   until Cohen (pictured) introduces another character, Avery, a black Vietnam vet and a former Lincoln Tunnel toll collector, who has converted first to Islam and then to drugs. The novel at this point grinds into another gear, becoming ever more strained in its ambition to portray contemporary America.At one point Yoav sits with a fondue set,  tossing the skewers like pygmy spears into this unidentifiable pot that reminded him of the helmet of a vanquished knight and some would land inside with a coining clank and some would miss and go skidding . As a description of the artist at work this is almost as good as Flaubert s famous . Would that we were all more skilful with our fondue forks. is published by Fitzcarraldo. To order a copy for ?11.04 (RRP ?12.99) go toor call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											