Tom Burke and Holliday Grainger continue to add flair to workmanlike crime drama writing as a new two-part story begins. An author has gone missing and, it sluggishly transpires, has left behind a spiky roman a clef that gives everyone he knows reason to wish him ill. Tim McInnerny is among a roster of suspects taking their turn to look vaguely guilty; the two stars fare better when the investigation recedes and their mercurial mentor/sidekick vibe develops. Final instalment of Levison Wood s epic schlep along the Caucasus mountains, one of the world s more geographically and politically volatile realms. This episode covers the final 1,000 miles or so, from Georgia s border with Armenia to the Caspian shore of Iran, negotiating, among other obstacles, the sputtering battlefield of Nagorno-Karabakh. The scenery is magisterial; Wood s grasp of regional politics less so. The would-be astronauts are half way through their space auditions, so Commander Chris Hadfield takes them to Sweden to see how they cope in a crisis. Firstly, they are gradually deprived of oxygen and it s enlightening to see how some bottle it straight away, while others put themselves at risk. The contestants are a cut above the average: it s hard to imagine the goons from The Apprentice facing a G-force. This week in the den, we meet flip flop-wearing entrepreneurs Andy and Benno, two former city bankers who are hoping to get investment in their compact beach towel company, which is already turning over more than  1m. So why do they need the Dragons? Then there are old pals and packaging business veterans Neville and Derek, who reckon they have an industry-revolutionising concept under their hats. But the Dragons soon burst their bubble. A sense of discontent is sweeping the nation and, as Queen, Victoria is determined to offer some assistance to her stricken subjects, much against the advice of both Albert and Peel. Her regal rescue plan involves putting on a majestic medieval ball at the palace, with wealthy attendees encouraged to wear costumes made from locally sourced silks. With the scheme hardly matching the dictionary definition of  mucking in , will it really win over an unhappy populace? As we reach its 16th anniversary, the events of 9/11 retain the power to shock. They also continue to challenge doc-makers to find fresh angles. This two-parter traces the decade leading up to the attacks: what emerges is an intricate web of retrospectively obvious warning signs. The contributory effects of US foreign policy are glossed over, but it s still a sobering tale of missed opportunities to avert catastrophe. Concludes tomorrow.In 1960, British motorcycle ace Surtees retired from the sport. It merely involved trading two-wheeled thrills for four, taking to a nascent Formula One and winning the world title just four years later. An engrossing story for petrolheads and pedestrians alike, this doc tells the story of the only person to win both motorcycle and F1 world championships, and in an era where tackling either was a life-threatening act. Vaughn s spy spoof stars a dapper Colin Firth as Harry Hart   the 007, as it were, of the Kingsmen. He s inducting young geezer Eggsy (Taron Egerton) in the ways of his secret crime-busting organisation, and of his gadget-packed brolly, while foiling the world-conquering plans of arch-nemesis Valentine (Samuel L Jackson). Before sliding away into an implausible conclusion, this is a grimly convincing slice of modern British life. Among an impressive cast is Tim Roth as a local solicitor and sweet dad of 11-year-old Skunk (Eloise Lawrence), Zana Marjanovic as his Polish au pair, who is in love with Skunk s teacher (Cillian Murphy), and Rory Kinnear as the grief-stricken Bob, struggling to raise three daughters. An unsettling, horribly funny Greek drama that s set in a gated house where a boy and two girls have been completely cut off from the world, their father controlling every aspect of their lives. When he kidnaps a young woman to provide for his son s sexual needs the walls begin to crumble on his hideous world. A macabre fable about society s urge to control the young. The eighth and final stage of the race, featuring a 180km race from Worcester to Cardiff. The final round from Crans-sur-Sierre in Switzerland.Coverage of the Premier League game at the Liberty Stadium.