 s star-studded library, including books inscribed by , ,  and , as well as a document signed by , is expected to exceed the ?500,000 sale estimate at auction next month.Among the highlights of the collection is a copy of , with a well-preserved handwritten poem given to the  actor by the book s author, Margaret Mitchell. It is expected to surpass its ?7,000 estimate. Leigh s presentation copy of the script for Gone With the Wind, given to her by the film s producer David O Selznick for Christmas 1939 has faired less well   the personal inscription from Selznick has been cut out. Despite the vandalism, the leather-bound screenplay is expected to fetch up to ?15,000.An estimate of ?7,000 has been placed on  s working copy of Hamlet, on which he scribbled notes for his acclaimed 1948 film adaptation. As well as his extensive edits to reduce the play to two hours, it contains his suggestions for casting. Though Leigh had campaigned hard for the role of Ophelia, reprising a part she had played a decade before, her initials do not appear beside the character s name. Instead her husband wrote  Swedish  and later cast 17-year-old   a decision that is believed to have had a detrimental effect on their tempestuous marriage.The library, on the market 50 years after Leigh s death from tuberculosis, reveals her to have been a bibliophile of wide taste that ranged from Truman Capote s In Cold Blood and  s James Bond series, to Evelyn Waugh, who inscribed her copy of The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold:  For Vivien, this sad little chapter of my life. With love from Evelyn. The collection also reveals Leigh to have been at the centre of intellectual and literary circles in mid-20th-century London and not just as one half of the most glamorous couple in theatre. ,  and , who decorated a gift of Barbara Jones s The Unsophisticated Arts with a drawing of a face and a pierced heart, are among those who wrote personal messages in her books. There are very significant people in this collection,  said Gabriel Heaton, director of books and manuscripts at Sotheby s.  These are intellectual heavyweights who were writing to her and giving her books. Announcing the sale, Heaton added:  The collection reveals so many facets of her personality. When we were going through her library, there were hundreds of books with inscriptions  To Vivien . It shows how many writers she was acquainted with and that she was an avid reader.  was prompted by the death of Suzanne Farrington, Leigh s only child, in 2015. It will take place alongside a collection of artefacts from Leigh s homes in London and Sussex.As well as special and rare editions of books by luminaries of stage, screen and page, the collection contains more personal items, including notebooks in which a young Leigh had copied out poems and diaries covering two of the most significant periods of her life: 1937 to 1939, and 1953.The earlier diary recounts the period when she met Olivier and they began a relationship. In an entry detailing her confession of the affair to her then-husband, barrister Herbert Leigh Holman, she wrote:  Told Leigh.  Six days later, she wrote:  Left with Larry. The 1953 notebook was written as Leigh s mental health deteriorated. Earlier that year she was dropped from the film Elephant Walk, in which she was to star opposite her lover Peter Finch. It precipitated a breakdown that lasted for several months, and her eventual diagnosis of bipolar disorder. [The diary] certainly gives hints of her struggle with mental illness during that time and of her hurt, trouble and sadness,  said Heaton.  There s nothing diagnostic, but you certainly get a sense of her struggling. One mystery remains unanswered in the collection.  Finding the document signed by Elizabeth was quite a surprise, but I would love to know more of the story behind it,  Heaton said. The document appeared in an inventory of Leigh s library in 1948, but there is no record of how it was acquired.  It could be acknowledgement of her role in Fire Over England,  the auctioneer said.A clue could lay in the contents: the document commands Sir Thomas Heneage to pay ?133 Maundy money [specially minted coins distributed by British royals the Thursday before Easter] to Richard Fletcher, the Bishop of Worcester. Fletcher was the father of the Jacobean dramatist John Fletcher, who collaborated with Shakespeare and was his successor as playwright to the King s Men. It is a mystery,  Heaton added.  As often is the case in these things, there is scope for further research. 																																											