Too many public sculptures are examples of  plop art    works dropped into an apparently random site and hardly noticed   according to artist .The  winner has been responsible for a number of public works around the world, including a cast of the fourth plinth in Trafalgar Square and the Holocaust monument in Vienna.Speaking ahead of a major retrospective of her work at , Whiteread said all her public sculptures were in places for a coherent reason. I m not a great fan of what I call  plop art,  she said.  Where you plop a piece of work down in a place and it doesn t really bear any relationship to anything else. Art has got extremely popular which is great for many reasons but I think a lot of public sculpture is ill-thought-out and put in places it shouldn t necessarily be. It then becomes something that is sort of invisible. People don t even notice it. I think art is there for a reason and should be respected and looked at, not be just a sideshow. Whiteread declined to name which sculptures she thought were plop art, but there will be many people who have strong views on the subject, given how fiercely divisive the subject of public sculpture can be.For as many people who love, for example, , there are large numbers who loathe it. How many people could name the men who occupy the three other plinths in Trafalgar Square? How many can even visualise them?Whiteread said London was  completely full of sculptures which no one bears a blind bit of attention to . She added that although there were figures everywhere:  People have no idea who they are or what they are for. The Essex-born artist burst onto the art scene in 1993 with her cast of an entire east London terraced house,.Her new retrospective surveys 30 years of her casts, whether of hot water bottles, doors, seats, windows, mattresses, or entire rooms and staircases.All the walls have been removed from Tate Britain s exhibition space leaving just one 1,500 sq m space full of her sculptures.It took four weeks to install the show and Whiteread said she looks on it with pride.  It has been quite emotional actually; it has been an interesting journey. What I feel very proud of in this show is the consistency, the work has kept this very rigid path and I ve created a language and I ve worked with this language ... it is like making an alphabet: you start to make words and play with them. In the show, the casts of floors and chairs and mattresses have tape around them, but keeping visiting children off them may be an extra challenge, curators admit.Whiteread said she was more concerned about children getting yelled at by their parents than the threat to her work, although she stressed they were not for climbing on.For the Tate Britain show she has made a sculpture cast from a Norfolk chicken shed, owned by a friend.It has been installed on the gallery s lawn and is part of a series Whiteread calls  shy sculptures    of sheds, huts and cabins from remote locations such as a fjord in Norway, up a hill on New York  Governors Island and the Mojave desert.Whiteread said sheds were beautiful things with their own poetry:  They are furniture for people to dream away their lives in.  She wanted to make many more and locate them in remote landscapes around the world accompanied by a book and a map, but added:  They have to be the right locations. The Tate Britain retrospective will run in London from 12 September to 21 January 2018 before travelling to Washington, Vienna and St Louis.																																											