trictly has chosen the traditional format of mixed-sex couples and at the moment we have no plans to introduce same-sex couples in the competition.  For guidance, they added efficiently, same-sex couples are not something they have ruled out for the future.If you don t keep up with Strictly news, you will be wondering what the hell is going on: one of the contestants is the comedian , who has been paired with the professional dancer Kevin Clifton, whose face and/or moves had already impressed her so much that . The problem is that Strictly has come to occupy a place in culture so prominently that the underlying dilemmas of the culture are ventriloquised by its editorial decisions   that is, if they aren t played out in first. No, sorry, that s the meta-problem. The actual problem is that Calman should have chosen a female partner, since she is gay   as a lesbian, if she fails to make her every action a pioneering surge forward in the struggle for equality, then she has failed and so has her paso doble.That s according to Twitter, anyway. The chief executive of Stonewall, Ruth Hunt, thought differently (also ):  Will catch up on #strictly later but for the record: 1. I Love @SusanCalman 2. @stonewalluk loves Susan. 3. She can dance with a man. #chill . Calman would probably have found allies, had she wanted a female partner   Craig Revel Horwood, the judge whose distinction is that he often makes perfect sense, said that  and rather demystifies the art by observing:  You only have to decide who s going to go backwards really, that s the only difference.  However, Calman   who has campaigned for LGBT rights all her life   didn t want a same-sex partner, and didn t ask for one, remarking (also on Twitter):  Dancing s not necessarily about sex; it s acting. When I do a sexy tango with my partner I ll be acting. I don t know if I m ethically bound, as a neutral Strictly-chronicler, to say that I agree with Hunt. It is irksome to have to act as not just ambassador, but ever-ready street-fighter on behalf of your own sexuality. It wouldn t happen to a straight man, put it that way: nor would it happen to a gay man. The Reverend Richard Coles, also in the line-up this season, has been under no pressure to choose a male dance partner.The question is   not for Calman but for the    does ballroom dancing have anything to do with sex, or is it so formalised, so attenuated by its own conventions, that it has no more to do with real sex than Valentine s Day or a love song by McFly does? If the sex element is still real, a public service broadcaster has a duty to be flexible about who fancies whom; if that s all acting, as Calman says, then it makes no odds.Berlin-based Antonio Ciutto is now involved with the German gay and lesbian ballroom scene   it meets at    and moved to London in the 90s to compete internationally for his native South Africa.  If we re talking about different dances, each one has a characteristic: with the Latin dances, the rumba is a love dance, sexual attraction but kind of a love story; the cha-cha is a tease; the tango is almost sex on the dance floor; the paso doble is the matador and his cape. Irrespective of who you re dancing with, that is the play, and that will never change.  But does it help if you fancy your partner?  No, not at all.  If you re acting attraction, especially in a highly stylised, technically complicated context, the last thing you want to feel is actual attraction. British ballroom dancing is known, says Ciutto, for being  quite conservative: quite prissy and dainty. The Italians, everything they do is attack; the Germans are incredibly fast; Russians are super-fast and disciplined. The English don t have that rawness.  In other words, even in a world where the sexual component is highly stylised, the British are even further removed than the rest of the world.It would be a bit rum to make the sexuality of the partnerships into a campaigning issue, while leaving in place the fundamental precepts of the dancing theatrics, which are patriarchy with tassels on. The follower, who is always the woman, dances a fraction of a second behind the leader and is without agency.  The girl dances endlessly in one direction, until the male yanks her in another direction,  Ciutto says. Even if you had an all-male or all-female pairing, you would leave that sub-dom dynamic in place. An equality-first ballroom-dancing agenda would mean ripping up all the dances, and replacing them with something more like what  might do at a birthday party. (I ve made that sound like a bad thing   obviously, it would be incredible.) The conventions of the ballroom are, like Japanese Kabuki, frozen in theatre, not much to do with romance, still less to do with sex, everything to do with glitter. Which leaves Calman, and Reverend Coles, free to dance with whomsoever they like, except one another (somebody has to know how to do it).