Two words: Ed Sheeran. If you re still reading, and applauding the inclusion of Mr Galway Girl in this year s Mercury shortlist, may we also interest you in Sampha and J Hus? The former s meditation on grief, Process, has won critical plaudits galore, while the latter s Common Sense is a polished blend of Afrobeats and bashment. Other nominees include Alt-J, Blossoms and Kate Tempest. Lauren Laverne hosts as the winner is revealed. AlSix Brits undertake a 900-mile journey-cum-adventure across Vietnam. Their itinerary would be tough for anyone, but each person has a different disability. In the first of two episodes, the challenges include caving, chaotic Hanoi traffic and the moment when the brakes of the team s 4x4 fail. The latter incident is a stern test for driver Vicky Balch, who lost her leg in a horrific and much-publicised accident at Alton Towers. The block-building bonanza nears its conclusion, as three remaining teams embark on their biggest battle yet, with the winning works to be displayed at London s Design Museum. To take the title, the teams must wow three young adjudicators, aged six, seven and eight. With the fun-sized critics keen to be impressed, there are a series of far-fetched themes to be interpreted via the medium of Lego. Can their constructions match the unfettered imagination of the judges? The second series of the doc spotlighting the work of the ambulance service, this time in the West Midlands. Tonight, we see our crew deal with car crashes, overdoses and more. Women are very much brought to the fore tonight: homely, stoic, calming, quietly heroic, superbly professional in handling life-or-death situations. Whatever line of employment you are in, it is impossible not to be humbled by the great, often grisly work these people do. There are no shortage of challenges for the teachers at Worsley s Harrop Fold School, but with GCSEs coming up they have their work cut out. Mr Povey is determined to give the pupils the best chance possible, providing extra lessons and confidence boosts after some disappointing mock exam results, but can they turn things round? Meanwhile, a nasty fight in the corridor serves as a reminder of what a difficult time it is for the school. It is pretty rare these days to find a show in which two people simply talk to each other for the best part of an hour. So, while this is fairly basic chatshow fare, it s still refreshing viewing. Tonight s third series opener features David Walliams subjecting himself to Bishop s insistent interrogations. They cover the swimming and cross-dressing but also, with admirable and appropriate earnestness, Walliams s depression. In this reckless cross between Love Island and Plebs, eight men with carefully oiled physiques compete in a series of humiliating gladiatorial challenges on an ancient Rome-styled set, with ?10,000 at stake. Their equally preening girlfriends are there to provide encouragement, while attempting tasks including wine-making and sculpting, and wrestling in historically authentic gold lam  bikinis. Relationship-based reality TV is truly entering its  collapsing empire  phase. ! (Jim Abrahams, David Zucker, Jerry Zucker, 1980) 11.20pm, ITV4Classic spoof disaster movie that has the crew of Flight 209 to Chicago struck down with food poisoning, leaving nervy former fighter pilot Robert Hays and stewardess Julie Hagerty at the controls. A whirl of corny, crass-but-funny gags and cliches keep it airborne, along with a top-flight cast of craggy old pros   Lloyd Bridges, Peter Graves, Robert Stack and Leslie Nielsen, AKA Detective Frank Drebin from Naked Gun.(David Mackenzie, 2013) 11.35pm, Film4This bleak, brutal prison drama has an electrifying Jack O Connell as 19-year-old Eric who, uncontrollable in juvenile detention, is transferred to proper prison where he finds his own useless father (Ben Mendelsohn) among the inmates. A lot of violence and contorted emotional anguish ensue, and screenwriter Jonathan Asser, drawing on his experience as a psychotherapist at Wandsworth prison, keeps it feeling real.  10am, Sky Sports Main Event. Coverage of day one from Evian-les-Bains, France, as the players begin their bids for the final major of 2017.5.30pm, BT Sport 2. Coverage of the Group E game at Stadio Atleti Azzurri d Italia. 8pm, BT Sport 2. Action from the Group H tie at the Emirates stadium.																																											