Unnervingly honest podcast (Kaitlin Prest & Radiotopia/iTunes) has always been excellent listening. Previous series have explored consent, femininity in men and lost love, but the latest batch is about bodies   and it doesn t so much break taboos as trample all over them.Mitra Kaboli s narration sets the scene as she focuses on a single chin hair that disturbs her and each episode, although shocking in parts, is full of reassurance.Itch, Cassie s tale of having  an itch in her butt  for years is relentless yet realistic. It s Not Me, It s You is a candid look at what happens when sex is painful. The issue is sensitively handled, but the episode is packed with experiences that no woman should have to go through, such as a partner who offers to  wear it in a little bit .The highlight is Meat, in which Jonathan Zenti talks about how he loves his body despite being obese in everyone else s eyes.  Yes I m fat, and I know that I m fat. I know because every day someone or something reminds me I m fat,  he says. He sees the look on fellow commuters  faces when he squeezes on to the subway in Rome, and catches the crushing moment when he was humiliated at a dinner party.  I heard the host whisper in his wife s ear:  Oh my God, we will run out of food for the other guests now  and they laughed,  he says without flinching.But Zenti s story is as thought-provoking as it is inspiring. He doesn t view being fat as an illness to be remedied, he s just living life.  I can fasten my seatbelt on an aeroplane, I can walk, I can stand up, I can sit down, I can touch my nose with my finger. How can I see my weight as a problem when it s never been a problem for me?  he says. He puts society s hatred of fat people down to them being a reminder of the fear of being unlovable and dying alone. Like all the stories here, Zenti s is told with style and sensitivity and it stays with you long after you ve listened.Given the current political climate, this podcast feels like one of the most important. It tells unconventional stories of the most marginalised bodies (literally) in society. Hosted by the reflective and witty Amanda Richards, Bodcast generates awareness about people who possess little to no privilege, and it has taught me a great deal about the experiences of those who do not fit into the overly rigid and absurd societal norms surrounding the body. My favourite episodes are the ones that approach the issues of our time   abortion, trans rights and health services   and humanise them with heartfelt discussion. The episode on Elijah s transition as a teenager, as well as the one with Ally Bruener   a disabled comic battling the medical system   are perfect examples of this. This podcast tells the story of two brothers  11,000 mile road trip from London to Mongolia as part of a charity event called the Mongol Rally. Far from Home captures the strangeness of places most Westerners have never heard of, much less visited, like the giant fire pit and the near-empty capital city of Turkmenistan. But it s at its best in small human moments, from hospitality offered in Iran to the kindness of strangers after multiple mishaps.It also documents the practicalities of preparing for an 18-country trek in a tiny car, obtaining visas and car repair lessons, and the necessary improvisations along the way when navigating desert breakdowns and corrupt border guards. A brilliant listen. From the Pew Charitable Trusts, After the Fact brings you data and analysis on the trends shaping some of society s biggest challenges. My favourite episodes so far have been State of the American Dream and Can Technology Save the Earth?, but whether you listen from a  what s in it for me  or a  how does this shape the world  viewpoint, it will stimulate thought and build understanding   and that just might lead to action. Sometimes podcasts really fly. I never know what the magic ingredient is   presumably some indefinable but killer chemistry between the guests, the subject matter and how smoothly everyone s brains are working   but you always know. Anyway, this  podcast is one of them: the Guardian s environment correspondent Fiona Harvey, veteran environmental adviser Tom Burke and Solitaire Townsend of the sustainability agency  assess how the UK leaving the EU could affect such inconsequential matters as the air we breathe, the water we drink and the food we eat.It s a free-flowing and good-humoured discussion that wears its knowledge lightly: I think you ll probably learn something even if you re a seasoned environmentalist   but if you re not, you won t get lost in the jargon either. And make no mistake, this really is an important topic: the UK s membership of the EU has played a massive role in our environment, from wildlife protections to energy efficiency and air pollution to marine conservation, the EU has led in pushing through vital measures. Some 80% of our our environmental rules derive from EU directives. So what s going to happen to all those laws after Brexit? Can they be transferred, who will police them, what s to stop them being ignored? Is our Brexit going to be green, or grisly? Please do have a listen. 