ural Britain is fertile ground for a generation of new British film-makers. A waterlogged Somerset provided the backdrop for Hope Dickson Leach s . And now the Pennines glower over the family farm in Francis Lee s equally impressive feature debut, . It s the kind of world in which bone-aching toil is a way of life and secrets are buried deep beneath the damp sod.And there are plenty of secrets here. Following his father s stroke, Johnny Saxby (a terrific, stoically anguished performance from Josh O Connor) has been forced to take over the daily running of the farm. Surveying his efforts with thin-lipped disapproval are his grandmother (Gemma Jones) and his dad (Ian Hart). With vowels as flat and hard as flagstones, they pass judgment on his efforts. It s hard to say which weighs him down more   the responsibility or the massive chip on Johnny s shoulder. To numb his dissatisfaction, he binge-drinks and engages in angry bouts of gay sex with strangers.Then Romanian worker Gheorghe (Alec Secareanu) arrives to help out over the lambing season. Limpid-eyed and almost painfully handsome, his presence unnerves Johnny, who finds it hard to unpick the difference between aggression and attraction. Their first sexual encounter is all sweat and spit, dirt and urgency. But Gheorghe brings some of the tenderness he shows to the animals into what soon becomes a relationship fuelled by Pot Noodles and stolen moments. Through Gheorghe, Johnny can once again see the beauty in the land he had started to regard as a tomb.Lee has a lovely eye for symbolic detail   a single light in the farmhouse window glowing through a dawn the colour of slurry emphasises just how alone Johnny is. The film has drawn comparisons with Ang Lee s , but for me there were closer parallels with Eytan Fox s Israeli drama , about the relationship between two soldiers. Both stories take place in a macho world between men who find the physicality of love rather easier than articulating it. But when the words are finally spoken, it s a moment to make the heart swell.