urn down an alley leading off a busy shopping street. Climb a bubblegum-pink concrete staircase. Walk past two huge, black lions lying surrounded by heaps of tyres ( Please respect the sculpture , a sign requests). Through a rooftop rock garden, down a series of concrete ramps and then, suddenly, you re in classical music s most famous car park. Peckham s  venue is home to the  and this summer, for the , it s also host to one of the BBC s  Proms at  concerts. We re a long way from South Kensington, and that s the point.Actually it s not the whole point. The orchestra established in 2011 by conductor Christopher Stark and composer Kate Whitley is no gimmick, and the car park offers more than a temporary repackaging of an art form with an access problem. The  is a musical force to be reckoned with, peopled by young professionals and conducted by Stark with a sort of intense, manically controlled energy. The ensemble s quality was clear from the first notes of Bach s chorale Wachtet Auf   performed in Granville Bantock s lush 1930s orchestration   which were a shock of sonorous warmth after the pre-concert clatter of conversation and passing trains. But while the sound was hyper-Romantic, Stark s phrasing and direction were restrained, putting Bantock s Bach subtly in dialogue with 21st-century ideals of  period performance .There is nonetheless a reason why most concerts (of any kind) don t take place in multi-storey car parks: the acoustic properties of a low-ceilinged, open-sided space made of concrete can be challenging. The last and longest piece on the programme, John Adams s hypnotically vibrant , was served up with rhythmic details firing on all cylinders, thrillingly nasty lower-brass intrusions and majestic, euphoric climaxes. But at times the performance was simply too loud in such a hard acoustic: for those sat at close quarters, Adams s instrumental kaleidoscope was in danger of blurring to brown.What the venue does undoubtedly provide, though, is a genuine sense of connection with the local community. This Prom saw the debut of the Multi-Story Youth Choir   a 100-strong chorus of schoolchildren   in Whitley s 2016 , an environmental protest piece written for and with them. Alongside stylish adult contributions from soprano Ruby Hughes and bass-baritone Michael Sumuel, these young performers summoned a musical maturity all their own   their focus unfaltering in the work s made-to-measure minimalism, their eyes alight   and an audience full of their supporters.																																											