ver since Disraeli, people in the world of politics have been tempted to have a bash at writing novels. In some cases they discover a talent for popular fiction   , and, just about, Boris Johnson and ; in others, most notoriously , they discover the opposite. So how does Vince Cable measure up?The answer is a Liberal Democratic one: somewhere in-between.  is a perfectly readable book which knits together a number of its author s experiences and preoccupations   principally, modern India and British parliamentary politics   in a thriller-style plot. Against a very-near-future backdrop of rising Indo-Pakistani tension, Cable knits (cable-knits: like a comfy sweater) a complicated tale of an Indian tech firm and its UK counterpart trying to arrange a contract to supply the Indian government with a technology that could be used to paralyse a nuclear first strike by a rogue Pakistani actor (or, it s hinted, a Pakistani counterstrike to Indian aggression).Our heroine is Kate Thompson, an attractive home counties Tory wife with a standard-issue Home Counties Tory Wife kit (philandering rogue of a husband; daughters who go to gymkhanas; bitchiness at the annual fete; election agent with  blue rinse and twin set ; small business importing Indian fabrics for yummy mummies) who becomes a backbench Tory MP.Soon   Indian connections and pretty face noted by the whips   she s packed off to Mumbai as a junior trade minister to help to sell this deal. There, she tumbles into bed with Deepak, the gorgeous young man who runs the Indian firm. Meanwhile a subplot at the UK firm (run by a  maverick  Scottish  genius  who calls everyone  laddie ) centres on the blossoming friendship between a Blairite union rep and a stunning Muslim accountant whose brother is, she fears, in danger of radicalisation.Expository material comes in this sort of style:  Now there were Star Wars, spooks and an Indian George Clooney. And people who seemed to know everything about her, even things she had managed to forget. Try as hard as she could to be calm and sensible she looked forward to this mission with a mixture of excitement and grave apprehension.  Wooden dialogue, overwrought exposition and a weakness for cliche   all of which are in evidence here   have never been an impediment to a successful thriller, though. Plot and pacing are all.Cable, then, has two main problems. Both of them are to do with focus. The first is that he has too many baddies. There are at least seven   a corrupt retired admiral who greases the wheels of the arms trade; a crackpot Deep South arms tycoon with an interest in far-right politics; a recruiting sergeant for Islamic State; an elderly Pakistani mobster; a Hindu extremist policy wonk and academic; a dodgy employee at the British arms manufacturer; a Pakistani spy and saboteur at the Mumbai branch; and one who, though fairly easy to guess, I shan t give away   and none of them has much in the way of human flesh on their bones.They work together, some of them, but we re not acquainted with any of them well enough to get a sense of a single conspiracy unravelling; and most of them more or less declare their villainy from the off.The second problem is that, in this diffuse Anglo-Indian set-up, too much of the action takes place in the past and in the future and not enough in the present. We re forever hearing how Parrikar Avionics came to be where it is, or what will happen in the event of X and Y.But there s not too much tension over what s going to happen in the next couple of hours or days. There s a murder investigation that goes nowhere very fast; a terror plot   desultory in its build-up and pretty perfunctorily dispatched   and there s a certain amount of high-level jiggery-pokery in the military-industrial complex. But what TV producers like to call  jeopardy  is largely absent.Still, we do get the occasional party-political dig.  Bloody coalition government,  a Tory secretary of state fumes at one point.  Bloody liberals. They brought in this anti-corruption crusade, crippling our businesses. Politically correct nonsense. One can imagine the author, at least, allowing himself a small smirk of pride.  is published by Corvus. To order a copy for  17.99 (RRP  15.29) go to or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over  10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of  1.99.