very God-fearing American deserves a hometown like Suburbicon, a community that could have sprung fully-formed from a Norman Rockwell drawing. It s a little utopia of comfortable ranch homes set back on manicured lawns, freshly built on the plains with a population of 60,000. The locals are good people, always warm and friendly   at least until a black family moves into town overnight. Then the garrulous postman finds himself lost for words. The businessman neighbour promptly loses control of his car. And before long there are angry mobs and Confederate flags and bricks being thrown at upstairs windows. Suburbicon is perfect place to live and work, provided you abide by certain rules.George Clooney s bouncy black comedy, which has premiered at the , is ostensibly set in 1959, before the Selma freedom march and the Civil Rights Act, although Clooney has been keen to point out its contemporary parallels too. It s a film about segregation and walls, spotlighting a corn-fed American darkness that lurks behind the white picket fence. All of which is entirely valid, given the state of the current quisling US government. I just wish the actual film wasn t so skimpy and brash and so evidently pleased with itself. There s no danger of this one keeping the president up at night. stars as stolid Gardner Lodge, who the local police chief mistakenly believes to be Jewish. Lodge is reeling from a brutal home invasion that appears to arrive out of nowhere and results in the death of his disabled wife. This is an awful thing to happen, in Suburbicon of all places, and the Stepford-ish citizens are appropriately scandalised. They pull commiserating faces and offer awkward man-hugs and yet they are clearly distracted; they have other things on their plate. Like that damn negro family who have moved in down the street.The opening half has a pleasing caffeine edge. It s fast-paced and glossy; we re enjoying the ride. Along the way, Clooney conjures some neat moments of misdirection, pointing the signposts in the wrong direction and forcing his viewer to double back to keep pace. Lodge strikes us as a good, decent man and appears utterly numbed by his loss. That surely explains why he is behaving so oddly. But why doesn t he identify the killers when they they appear in a police line-up? And why is a reptilian insurance man (played by Oscar Isaac in a Clark Gable moustache) showing up at the door, talking about red flags and possibly fraudulent claims?Lodge s young son Nicky (Noah Jupe) simply cannot work it out. Then one day, alerted by a suspicious noise in the basement, he throws open the door and flicks on the overhead light. Below, he sees a sight that no American child should see. His simpering Aunt Maggie (Julianne Moore) is bent over a table with her pants round her ankles, while Lodge merrily swings a ping-pong bat against her bare buttocks.  Angel!  exclaims Aunt Maggie, keen to maintain her social facade in the most trying of circumstances.The Suburbicon script was originally was originally written by the  back in the late 1980s. Clooney has tweaked it, politicised it; folding it in with a project he was developing about a true-life crime in Levittown, Pennsylvania. The snag is that the film s pedigree as Coen brothers  reject constantly makes itself felt. At some point we twig that this is a movie about an insurance scam gone awry, featuring a cash-strapped husband who buckles under pressure. At some point, in other words, we realise that what we are seeing is the idiot child who would one day grow up to be Fargo. It s been locked down in the basement for the past 30 years. Clooney, damn his hide, just opened the door and threw on the overhead light.It s no spoiler to reveal that there s no Hollywood happy ending for the good people of Suburbicon. A film s character is its fate, after all, and it is clear from the outset that the whole town is damned. The scheme collapses and the house comes down and hapless Gardner Lodge is cast to the four winds. That s because Clooney s film is here on a mission to tear down the facade and reveal the American horror within. It wants us to rejoice in the destruction; to sit back and laugh as the bonfire burns. But Suburbicon is too lightweight and mannered; it lacks proper fury. Watching it is like having your trouser-leg savaged by an energetic small dog. 