very major film festival is an island when you re caught up in it, the outside world only really manifesting itself as pictures on a screen. The , however, really is an island   it takes place on the Lido, across the water from the main city   and the proceedings feel more cosily enclosed than ever, now that the festival buildings are surrounded by an elegant compound of patios and park. You could sit here sipping your spritzer   or indeed, sheltering from torrential rain   and forgetting that exterior reality existed, because only a few films managed to remind you at all persuasively that it did.On paper, the 74th festival looked set to be the best in years, especially in the wake of , with many hotly awaited titles and a host of big names on both sides of the camera. In the end, little induced either fury or rapture, and many just elicited that Italian shrug accompanied by a noncommittal  I arrived too late to catch the film that got consensus raves: Guillermo del Toro s , a monster movie-cum-romance starring Sally Hawkins. But for me, there were two standout fiction features. One was Martin McDonagh s . It s a very dark comedy thriller set in the southern US, about a woman (Frances McDormand) on a mission to avenge her raped and murdered daughter. As the violence spirals, a film that looks set to expose the darkest side of humanity ends up suggesting that even seemingly irredeemable characters might stand a chance of a third-act reversal. McDormand is leather-tough and tersely funny, there s superb support from Woody Harrelson and Sam Rockwell, and McDonagh s script crackles, not just with off-the-peg folksy profanity but with a genuine sense of surprise.The other standout was a film that I suspect won t really make sense till a second, maybe a third viewing. It s , the first feature in seven years from Argentinian director Lucrecia Martel (, ). Its protagonist is a hapless functionary in 18th-century Paraguay, and while not much happens (star Daniel Gim nez Cacho largely wanders around, perplexed, under a three-cornered hat), when it finally does, it s violently unsettling. This hallucinatory work vaguely suggests a stoned, swampy relative of 1970s Werner Herzog, but invents its own cinematic language.So arguably does , the festival s one genuine controversy. The latest from Darren Aronofsky, it starts off as a sort of  home invasion movie, with Jennifer Lawrence as a woman married to a blocked writer (Javier Bardem) whose life is turned upside when a troublesome couple (Ed Harris, a super-sinister Michelle Pfeiffer) pay a visit. Then more people visit, and soon the film has become an apocalyptic free-for-all that s possibly an allegory for  well, we re invited to decide for ourselves. By the end,  feels like a loud, drunken dinner-party argument between Bu?uel, Polanski, Fellini and Eug ne Ionesco. It also rather resembles Lars von Trier, except that Aronofsky doesn t have one jot of Von Trier s impish humour. I found it cosmically idiotic, although some critics hailed it; still, you won t see a Hollywood film this outre in a hurry.Most other offerings were easier to pigeonhole.  (directed by Micha?l R Roskam) was a glossily enjoyable thriller romance about a racing driver (Ad le Exarchopoulos) and her robber fiance (Matthias Schoenaerts), fuelled by genre energies and the leads  not inconsiderable chemistry. Stephen Frears offered a business-as-usual variant on the heritage pic in , with Judi Dench dusting off her Queen Victoria performance in the story of the queen and her beloved Indian Muslim attendant (a personable Ali Fazal). Scripted by Lee Hall, it tries for a satire of colonial attitudes but never escapes from the Faberg  chocolate box.A better, more down-to-earth British production was Andrew Haigh s , which follows a teenage boy in crisis as he finds hope in his attachment to the racehorse of the title. Steve Buscemi and Chlo? Sevigny give characterful support, up-and-comer Charlie Plummer is an engagingly candid lead, and Haigh s picture of back-road America feels involvingly authentic. But, fine though the film is, it could almost have been made by any of a handful of US indie auteurs, and it s a shame that Haigh   whose  and  so brilliantly cast new light on intimate corners of British life   should have taken such a well-beaten transatlantic track.Among the major disappointments was George Clooney s , part-written by the Coen brothers. Set in a squeaky-clean 1950s community, it s about a boy who realises that his family members (Matt Damon, Julianne Moore) aren t the paragons they seem; meanwhile, their black neighbours face racist hostility. It s as if Clooney had gussied up a standard Coens murder story with additional contemporary relevance, and the facetious result is offensively superficial.Meanwhile, one US film that gave you faith in some survival of American sanity was , veteran Frederick Wiseman s exhaustive documentary about the New York Public Library. Characteristically, he stands back without comment and simply shows how the institution works, through glimpses of careers fairs, slam poetry recitals, Braille training sessions and talks from Patti Smith, Richard Dawkins and Elvis Costello. We also get several board meetings, reminding us that culture and literacy have to be perpetually fought for, and financed. Though perhaps not one of Wiseman s very best, it s nevertheless a revealing study.Also taking his time to expand on a theme, Abdellatif Kechiche   who made controversial Cannes winner    returned with , a three hour drama (with, presumably, more to come) about a shy young north African man spending the summer in the French Mediterranean town of S te, which seems to be populated almost entirely by beautiful young women in cut-off shorts and the men who hit on them. The film is a hymn to sun, sex, hedonism, loud conversation and women s bottoms; it s ferociously energetic, but one-dimensional, and if you think Kechiche showed lecherous tendencies in , he abandons all shame here.Also wildly self-indulgent was , a would-be Dostoevskian chamber piece by US director James Toback, in which Sienna Miller kills her boyfriend, then receives visits from a variety of loquacious types, including Toback himself, dropping in to discuss the meaning of life; even old Fyodor would have told Toback to lighten up. And , by fashion designers , was a druggy reverie starring Kirsten Dunst, so oblique that critics huddled outside afterwards to try and pin down the basic plot points.But no self-indulgence quite beat the excesses of Jim Carrey, as seen in , about the star s performance as comic Andy Kaufman in 1999 biopic . Chris Smith s fascinating documentary is based on footage of Carrey on set, permanently in character either as Kaufman or his monstrous creation, slobbish crooner Tony Clifton. Interviewed today, a wild-eyed, wildly earnest Carrey muses on Kaufman s conceptual weirdness and his own career, and wonders whether the role might have caused him some psychic damage. As an essay partly on the perils of going beyond method, partly on the worst extremes of movie-star ego,  is the most hair-raising horror movie of the year.																																											