ward-winning designers Edward Barber and Jay Osgerby met at the Royal College of Art in 1992, where they were studying architecture. But it turned out that neither was really interested in skyscrapers.As students, they were offered a restaurant interiors project and came up with their first piece of hit furniture, . On the back of this success they set up a design practice, working out of Barber s flat in  in west London.  We were running an ad hoc, unprofessional studio,  explains Barber, looking back.Confidence to take on projects came from their friendship.  I m not sure either one of us would have done it on our own at that point and I don t think that s changed,  says Osgerby.  When we left college we didn t consider working anywhere, we just thought we d carry on. Collaboration is a theme that often comes up in conversation with the designers, too.  One of the great things is that our process is analogue: lots of model-making, lots of drawing, which can be interpreted in different ways by somebody else,  says Osgerby in their light-filled east London loft studio.  If Ed draws something, I ll often misunderstand what he s trying to do. Usually because he s looking at it upside down,  quips Barber.  But seriously,  he continues,  people often ask: how does it work, two of you designing one thing, which is strange to us, because with any named designer, there s always someone within their studio   it might not always be the same person   who they bounce ideas off. No one designs in complete isolation. Our process is naturally collaborative. Next month a book of their work, written by the curator and lecturer Jana Scholze, looks back on their 21-year career. Included is their instantly recognisable  (2012), , a vast, site-specific installation made with BMW for the London Design Festival (2014), the plastic  for Vitra (2011) and their solo exhibition, , held at London s Design Museum (2014).Their collaboration has seen them win the  in 2004, which led to their creating new chairs for the newly restored De La Warr Pavilion in Bexhill on Sea. A competition win for new chairs for the Bodleian Library in Oxford followed, as well as commercial product hits such as the Tab lamp for Flos, Puzzle Tiles for Mutina, and Poppins, an umbrella stand for Magis. They were both awarded OBEs in 2013.The common thread in their work is understatement, the absence of superfluous detailing   that and personality, not an easy combination to achieve.  In Germany there s a saying that four eyes see more than two,  says Eckart Maise, Vitra s chief design officer, who has worked closely with them since 2004.Their collaborative way of working probably explains their very long-standing partnerships with many of the world s leading design companies. The list is impressive: B&B Italia, Cappellini, Dedon, Herm s, Venini, Established & Sons, as well as their limited-edition pieces for  in Paris. Every single thing, every detail starts in our studio with the two of us,  says Osgerby.  Everything comes out of this room. It s the only way we know how to work.  ,