We talked last week about wish fulfilment. And  about wish fulfilment! In a series that s been guilty in the past of not actually having a lot happening a lot of the time, this was the week when  of the things happened all of the time. The meme as this started getting going was  Where is Twin Peaks?  It s been a long time getting here, but as Agent Cooper strides purposely out of hospital, proudly declaring  I  the FBI!  and  s legendary score chimes in, we finally have our answer. It might have been a frustrating wait to get our favourite agent back   as frustrating as it was for the poor man stumbling through Dougie Jones  life. But the point, of course, was always the journey. I m not sure I ve ever been so reassured by the return of an old friend. With Agent Cooper around, everything just feels somehow  safe. And when he bids farewell to Janey-E and Sonny Jim, telling how their time together made his heart full, he s absolutely telling the truth. For the rest of its running time, Part 16 is simply glorious fun - particularly the Mitchum Brothers kindly brandishing sandwich platters, and the downright hilarious suburban shootout that sees off Chantal and Mitch, the point of whom I was never entirely sure about.  The fuck kind of neighbourhood is this,  indeed, as Bradley Mitchum asks rhetorically. Those guys do indeed have hearts of gold, and Lynch and Frost are clearly having a whale of a time as the series  body count piles up. To make things even more exciting, Audrey finally makes it to the Roadhouse!After finally crossing that seemingly immoveable threshold (in more ways than one), Audrey and Charlie finally arrive at the Roadhouse. The show s treatment of time is no more penetrable than ever, as the events for Audrey and Charlie over five weeks have apparently played out in a matter of minutes. So far so Lynchian. Audrey, like Cooper, appears to be returning in a manner of speaking: in the bizarre-est of sequences even for this show, the Roadhouse compere announces  Audrey s dance , and suddenly the old, innocent Audrey is back, doing her old familiar jazz dance to the music only she could ever hear. It s elegant, and Lynch milks the moment, before abruptly killing it: a fight breaks out, Audrey freaks, and then is revealed to be ...somewhere else? A clinical white room, without her America s Sweetheart make-up, in some distress. Is this still her coma? Is this the real Audrey, or the was the old Audrey actually the fake? Is /she/ a  as well?My theory of Diane as the true heroine of the piece proved somewhat wide of the mark. Turns out she s a Tulpa, being manipulated into killing her colleagues by Evil Coop, the man who raped her 20 years earlier. What a performance from Laura Dern, as the original, old Diane still fighting to get out from under the surface, warning them  I m not me!  before being transported back to the Lodge, and then turning into a seed. Because, I  , the purpose of these Tulpas was to carry these mysterious pearls to the Black Lodge. Right? Anyone?!