wedish journalist Stieg Larsson planned 10 instalments in his . The three novels he did write, beginning with , had energy, spectacular violence and superb plotting. Larsson s weird, sometimes clunky prose style was forgiven because there was real chemistry   empathy, even   between his two stars, the computer hacker Lisbeth Salander and the journalist Mikael Blomkvist. The series made a fortune and, as no good deed goes unpunished, it has been turned into a franchise.is the second instalment to be written by the Swedish biographer and novelist , translated by George Goulding.  (2015) sold very well and this new outing has been published with full blockbuster treatment.Damaged, dysfunctional heroines are common in thrillers, as are layers of gendered trauma, but Larsson s Salander was a fabulous, surprising character   a feminist superhero, an Amazonian queen, a Lolita who fought back. Obsessive and antisocial, she was forged in the crucible of violence she experienced as a child. She took the kind of revenge on rapists and paedophiles that most only fantasise about, taking on powerful, corrupt men with righteous but lawless violence. With Blomkvist, she was the glamorous half of one of the oddest but most effective and entertaining crime fiction couples. Blomkvist, the old-school social justice warrior with a penchant for underdogs and a hatred of social hypocrisy, provided a perfect foil. is billed as the revelation of the appalling things done to Salander when she was a child, but the narrative meanders between a bewildering array of storylines that never come together. The story starts with Salander in prison for unconvincing reasons. When she does wander on to the page, she gets beaten up or does stuff on her computer, but remains ghostly and uninhabited. The author commits the cardinal thriller sin of telling rather than showing what she does: there are long, mansplaining sections about genetics and social research that made me pray to Elmore Leonard, the god of economical thriller writing, who famously instructed that writers should  try to leave out the part that readers tend to skip .Lagercrantz has turned Larsson s eccentric and feral feminism into a simple inversion. This time there are two female arch-villains after Salander. One is an ageing, ailing Mad Scientist with a doctor s bag of syringes and lethal poisons who is determined that nothing of her social eugenics programme will be revealed. The other is a ludicrously cartoonish gang boss who ends up hospitalised by Salander s quick fists and is in cahoots with a pair of nasty brothers   billed as Islamists   who have hired her to persecute their jailed and silent sister. There are identity-switching twins who make the antics of Sebastian and Viola in  seem pedestrian, and many references to Salander s evil twin.The reader is repeatedly told that Salander and Blomkvist are driven by a desire for justice, but because we spend so little time in close-up with the book s heroine, it is not convincing. There is a sluggishness to the plotting and much of the tension relies on orchestrated interruptions and delays, which irritate. Lagercrantz has all the elements of the Millennium series at his disposal, but the adrenaline is missing: it feels as if one has gone to a restaurant, ordered a rare steak and been served soggy fish fingers instead. Margie Orford sis published by Head of Zeus. is published by MacLehose. To order a copy for ?17 (RRP ?20) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of ?1.99.																																											