What do guns when they are not in use?In the dead of night they double and divide,naming new owners, finding a new ruse.Carry a gun on stage, it must be fired. only lasts until undone.Better they are counted out of mind.List the ways to frame a decommission,a car-park graveyard covered with cement.Which stay on stasis is sufficient?Marking each as Keeping their provenance as you would art.Rocking the replicas back to their false start.It s got to be efficient.A suggestive metaphor  provides the title of Siobh n Campbell s new collection, , and sustains its resonance in this week s poem. The invention of the mimeograph, an early copying machine, dates back to the 19th century. It was supplanted by the photocopier some time ago. But the reader doesn t need to remember the mimeograph to get the reference, since imitation (as in mime) is spelled out in the word itself, and emphasised in its implied cohabitation with  original . The double summoning of the past, including the recent past, is surely apt. Campbell s larger focus is the contemporary  matter of Ireland . Unusually, there s little sense of a north-south border, or at least one that can t be freely trampled. The Dublin-born Campbell seems comfortable with the uncomfortable, a native not of the south or north but of the problematic, including . This poem challenges assumptions about the value of de-commissioning. Replication undermines the pledge to put a weapon  beyond use  (line 10 quotes the formula) and mocks the burial: the dead weapon in its  car-park graveyard  proliferates. These guns are not only undead: they  double and divide . Terseness predominates in Campbell s syntax as the phrasing of the opening questions signals. Not:  What do guns do when they re not in use?  but  What do guns when they re not in use?  This usage heightens the notion of the guns  sparky animation. The weapon has a sinister life of its own, and can find its own combatants and reasons for use. The rhyming of  use  and  ruse  is eloquent. The second stanza  about theatrical guns and broadens the poem s frame of reference. Campbell herself, in her thesis reads Origin of the Mimeo as a poem about poetry. Chekhov s rule highlights the contract of author and auditor, and could apply to any significant object, and to other literary genres than drama. The rule might be extended to embarrass the concept of the weapon as a deterrent: if it exists, it will be used. But Campbell is interested in the question at the level of this specific poem: having introduced the gun on to the stage of the poem, is she obliged to fire it?  Campbell s lines are mostly in trochaic pentameter; they have a terse orderliness but are never leisurely. Her single-sentence, single-line statements are perhaps meant to be verbal gunshots. Or perhaps it s the curtailed last line that fires the gun.  In stanza two, the moral clincher of the third line plays on the verb in apposition,  counted out  and its transformation into  counted out of mind . Previously, the italics of  remind us of a word claiming too much for itself.  In the third stanza the idea of the list is raised and mocked by the image of   a car-park graveyard covered with cement . There are too many ways to  frame a decommission , beginning with the interpretation of  frame , no doubt. The phrase has an odd echo of Elizabeth Barratt Browning counting the ways of love, possibly hinting at Campbell s resistance to lyric sentimentality.  Lyrical grace may be suspect, the terza rima casually plaited, but there s an energy in the language, buried metaphors, gleams of wordplay that are more than mere lace ( stay on stasis ,  rocking the replicas back to their false start ). The latter is particularly interesting. Campbell points out the Yeats connection with  rocking  in her thesis: presumably it s primarily . Only the decommissioning of the mind will put the gun beyond use. Meanwhile, the very word gun is potent, a disturbing image in three coiled letters. Perhaps the poem itself is mimetic, a small, loaded object with underground connections, its own forms of subterfuge and escape.  The thought is often complex. To keep   as you would art  suggests the placing of a high value on the original. This may of course be an allusion to historical responsibility. In  rocking the replicas back to their false start , it s the term  false start  that suggests the possibility of beginning afresh. The throwaway last line can be read in several ways. It looks back to the earlier lines of the quatrain, that powerful triad of gerunds, which answered the command to  list the ways to frame a decommission :  Marking each as  Keeping their provenance as you would art. / Rocking the replicas back to their false start. ) And, grammatically, the pronoun  it s  refers to the  stay on stasis . There s a complicating idiomatic twist in the line.  It s got to be efficient  can mean  it s sure to be efficient  or  it will need to be efficient . Then there s the (attractive) potential for irony    none of this is at all efficient . The poem decommissions neither optimism nor pessimism. It s a finely balanced piece.																																											