When a filmmaker sets out adapting a stage play, their first order of business is usually divorcing the text from its intrinsic play-ness.  s new treatment of RC Sherriff s celebrated first world war drama Journey s End goes to great lengths to obscure the fact that the action was almost entirely constrained to a dimly lit dugout shelter, visualising the trenches and battlefield originally left offstage. The great pathos of Sherriff s 1928 work unspools in this pressure chamber of near-death anxiety, as soldiers drink and fight and sullenly sit in silence while waiting for the heat of battle to come to them. The trouble is that during the considerable amount of time spent in that cramped subterranean hideaway, the audience can feel Dibb fidgeting to get out so he can do and show more. In this respect, his behaviour mirrors that of the young troops itching for action. What makes for a good serviceman, however, doesn t necessarily make for a good director. Dibb is working at cross purposes with himself, trying to communicate the claustrophobia of the dugout while simultaneously escaping it at every opportunity.For the men of C Company that inhabit it, the primary setting functions as a grim limbo, a liminal space where oblivion may not be present, but is definitely imminent. An introductory title card informs us that each squadron of infantry was required to spend six days of every month on the front, and the film plays out over the course of four such days. It s a time of unease, and perhaps Dibb is angling to capture that restlessness through his constant diversions: dream sequences and treks through the foxholes that feel aimless aside from proudly displaying the lads  workmanlike efficiency. (This adaptation, the fifth cinematic rendering of Sherriff s play, was commissioned as part of the United Kingdom s WWI Centenary Commemoration. To Dibb s credit, he evokes the somber spirit of nationalism more vividly than, say, a bronze statue.) The chaps of C Company fulfill all the classic war-picture stock roles, though Journey s Endis old enough that one could probably credit it with creating those clich s in the first place. Our boy is Lieutenant Raleigh (Asa Butterfield, whose childlike face is a crucial asset in his performance), a wet-behind-the-ears recruit getting his first taste of combat and offering the audience a surrogate in this unfamiliar environment. Marked for tragedy from the moment he naively describes the hell of war as  frightfully exciting,  his innocence gets eradicated in brutal fashion, and Butterfield acts with studied terror. Captain Stanhope (, a far cry from the young Laurence Olivier who originated the role) is Raleigh s school chum and a picture of his dark future, shell-shocked and self-medicating with pre-noon boozing. He s a cauldron of painful emotions: self-loathing over his slide into profligate alcoholism, angry at Raleigh for subjecting himself to a nightmare the boy can t yet comprehend, and haunted by the memories of fiery annihilation from an earlier skirmish. The character dynamics are still as rich as when Sherriff first realised them, and C Company s supporting servicemen add a few complementary hues to this portrait of militarised despair. (As a forgetful staff cook,  brings a more accessibly civilian viewpoint to the foreign terrain of war.) And yet Dibb s direction doesn t leave the actors enough room to breathe. His camerawork is indifferent in moments of repose, and when he shifts into intensity mode, his close-ups go individual moustache hair-levels of extreme. A drab colour palette and run-of-the-military score contribute to an all-around lack of distinction, too. It s almost as if Dibb doesn t trust the script, an odd hangup to have with material so thoroughly enshrined in the British dramaturgical canon.It is to this film s great misfortune that it has to exist in such close proximity to , a film that tackles, if not the same war, at least the same historical milieu and key ideas   the gutting effect trauma has on young men, the distinctly British propriety of stiff-upper-lipped combat   far more effectively. Like Dibb, Nolan understood that the anticipation of an unseen enemy can be far more excruciating than the immediacy of a firefight. Nolan made this approach work through a confident comfort with silence and stillness, two elements of which Dibb seems fearful. As a result, Journey s End winds up a restless film, searching for a way out of what should be its destination. Keep calm and carry on, right past the marquee.