Will Steve be named star baker for a third time? Will teen Liam manage to match his technique to his flair? And, in bread week, will shouts of  Prove it!  be too hard for Toksvig and Fielding   now settled into their roles   to resist? The contestants must rustle up a batch of teacakes, survive the technical challenge (a cottage loaf) and wow with the showstopper, a naturally coloured bread sculpture. A clear case of kneads must. In this salty sea dog s version of 24 Hours in A&E, the RNLI s army of nearly 5,000 volunteers impress with Dunkirk-esque scenes of stoic heroism taking place all around the British Isles. This week, a freak wave fells a kayaker in Tenby, south-west Wales; Cornish crews join forces for a gruelling 11-hour mission; and one crew off the coast of Devon has their very own Free Willy moment when they get the call-out of a lifetime. Debut of yet another celebrity travelogue of the  Youth Hostelling with Chris Eubank  school, in which the titular actor-presenter meets people who live on Britain s coast. This is laudable in as much as it might encourage British viewers to visit more of their underrated shoreline, especially that of Skye, which features in this episode. It is not, however, difficult to think of several hundred more enthralling ways to spend an hour. With Simon back and vindictively sending around estate agents to value the family home, Gemma   now also estranged from son Tom   plans a fightback. In an episode where the sense that the medic might do something unwise is almost unbearable, especially once she hits the wine, it s soon clear that the former couple s sparring is going to cause plenty of collateral damage. As ever, the performances are excellent, with special mention tonight to Adam James as philanderer Neil. Now that the initial excitement of being in paradise has well and truly lost its sheen, it s replaced with voracious mosquitoes, gnawing hunger and sandflies. Jordan Stephens might well pull his weight in Rizzle Kicks but not here, and people are starting to simmer about it. Meanwhile, comic Shazia Mirza goes all out in her pursuit of food, and swimming great Sharron Davies makes a shock announcement to her fellow maroonees. New series in which veteran cameraman Paul  Mungo  Mungeam   only 5% less plummy than his rugger-chap nickname suggests   attempts to locate legendary beasts around the world. This week he s in the Amazon to track a 50-metre man-eating snake dubbed the  mother of the river . Mungo s a decent guide, but the problem with searching for myths is that the chances of walking away empty-handed are very high indeed. This deluxe appreciation of John Sullivan s peerless sitcom continues, profiling its supporting cast. Boycie, Marlene, Denzel and Mickey all get their due, but there is a particularly heartfelt tribute to broom-pushing dimbulb Trigger. The reconvened cast and crew also get to react to some never-before-seen outtakes from the show s uproarious live tapings, including some cushty business with barman Mike and a beermat.  (Duncan Jones, 2009), 1.50am, Sony Movie ChannelSam Rockwell s mining engineer Sam Bell is at the end of his lonely three-year vigil on the dark side of the moon with only computer Gerty (smoothly voiced by Kevin Spacey) for company; but the arrival of what appears to be another human has him questioning reality. There are shades of 2001: A Space Odyssey and Solaris in Jones s impressive debut.The Swiss champions arrive for a Group A tie at Old Trafford.Stamford Bridge hosts a Group C tie against the Azerbaijani team.Day two of the tournament held in Tokyo.																																											