Two  activists have climbed Nelson s column in central London to fit a gas mask to the statue as part of a city-wide protest over air pollution.Alison Garrigan and Luke Jones evaded security and scaled the 52-metre monument to Admiral Lord Nelson in Trafalgar Square soon after dawn on Monday. Once at the top they fitted a giant gas mask to Nelson s face to highlight the dangerous levels of toxic air in the capital.When they eventually climbed down after spending several hours on the column they were arrested on suspicion of causing criminal damage by police who had been watching the stunt unfold from the foot of the landmark. Garrigan was one of  in a Greenpeace protest.A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said:  Police in Westminster were called to Trafalgar Square at 04:11 hours on Monday 18 April after a group of six protesters were seen trying climb Nelson s column with a banner. At around 09:00 the protesters came down from the column   two people were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage. Greenpeace activists fitted gas masks to another 17 statues in the capital, including Oliver Cromwell in the grounds of the Houses of Parliament, Winston Churchill in Parliament Square, Queen Victoria opposite Buckingham Palace, Thierry Henry at Arsenal s Emirates stadium and Eros s plinth at Piccadilly Circus.Paul Morozzo, a 49-year-old Greenpeace campaigner, who helped attach masks to statues of Eros, Queen Victoria and Boudicca and was not arrested, denied that the stunt was disrespectful to London s heritage.  We were really careful not to damage any of the statues and we think it is legitimate way of making a point. It was creative, nothing was damaged, and it s not permanent,  Morozzo told the Guardian.A parliamentary spokeswoman confirmed that activists breached a security fence at the House of Commons before fitting a gas mask to Cromwell s statue. Four activists were arrested on suspicion of breaching the . Greenpeace named them as Victoria Henry, who also scaled the Shard in 2013, Phil Ball, Hannah Boustred and Chris Till.Two other activists, Andrew McParland and France Myles, were arrested after they climbed the Duke of Wellington memorial at Hyde Park Corner.A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said:  At approximately 06:25 two protesters scaled the Cromwell statue in Parliament Square. Shortly after 07:00 both voluntarily came down and were arrested. Two other people were arrested at the scene in connection with incident. At around 08:15hrs two people were arrested after scaling the Duke of Wellington Memorial in Hyde Park Corner. Both were arrested on suspicion of criminal damage. A spokesman for Westminster city council said its inspectors were working to remove the masks from sites around the area, but that it was not responsible for Trafalgar Square or Parliament Square. At the time of writing Nelson s mask remained attached.Morozzo said he was surprised that he and his accomplice and fellow Greenpeace campaigner Sebastian Bock had not been stopped by the police. We did Eros, Queen Victoria and Boudicca. All the other teams got arrested. We were just lucky, but some of our statues were easier so we were faster.  Eros was tricky because we had to be careful not to touch the statue, we didn t want to bend it. Seb balanced on my shoulders and put the mask on without touching the statue. I m two stone heavier than him. I m a very experienced climber, but I ve got two kids and do a lot less these days. I was expecting to get arrested at the Queen Victoria statue in front of Buckingham Palace, but we were quick and we out of line of sight of some police officers with machine guns at the gates. We were wearing hi-vis vests which had  statue cleaning department  written on them   but I m not sure anyone would have believed that given that everything is privatised these days.Morozzo said Greenpeace had been planning the stunt for about a month and that the masks were custom made for each statue by the artist Chris Kelly. The masks are made of wheat-based plastic which can be moulded into different shapes when you heat it. Each mask speaks to the character of the statue, so Churchill s masks had filters in the shape of a bowler hat and a radio speaker, and the filters on the Eros mask were two love hearts. Despite the arrests of his colleagues, Morozzo said Greenpeace regarded the stunt as a success.  Air pollution is an invisible problem these days unlike the days of smog   9,500 people die early because of air pollution in . So it was really smart way of making what s invisible visible and bringing more attention to it. The Greenpeace campaigner Areeba Hamid said the concerted action was to highlight the need for urgent legislation to tackle air pollution.She said:  Monitoring shows that if these statutes were real people, many of them would often be breathing dangerous, illegal air. Kitting everyone out with face masks is not the solution, instead, we need to see real political action from the new mayor. We need a clean air zone covering a large part of the city. Whoever wins the election has to stop the talk and start the action. Current proposals for an ultra-low emissions zone to come into force in 2020 only offerprotection from dangerous air to residents and commuters in zone one, Greenpeace said.Hamid added:  At schools across London children are being forced to breathe illegal, dangerous air. Londoners need greener and affordable public transport, along with air pollution alerts and an efficient and adequate system to measure air quality. The next mayor should begin a consultation on a clean air zone immediately after the election. 