n a ditch by a burger van on the A142 near Ely, Cambridgeshire, lives one of our rarest plants. It is the last natural home of , which shows its yellow flowers each summer despite being assailed by discarded coffee cups and the occasional burning car.It¡¯s the rarest of many plants for which roadside verges have become a last refuge. The fact that rubbish-strewn verges are home to more than half Britain¡¯s flora šC 809 species,  šC is a stark sign of how we have trashed our environment, .But we should cherish and celebrate this amazing, accidental habitat. Many verges are fragments of ancient meadows. Chalky motorway embankments are a machine-made flowery downland, while even the despondent-looking brown edges of regularly salted main roads have been adopted by coastal plants, such as Danish scurvygrass. For the , verges represent their best chance of encountering nature.But Plantlife  or cut far too early in the year. Some, of course, must be trimmed for road safety but verges are where wildlife and austerity are in perfect harmony. Everyone wins from a flower-friendly verge šC from cash-strapped councils to the rare black hairstreak butterflies enjoying the blackthorn deliberately planted beside the M40.The government and councils can save money by managing verges for wildlife šC ideally only cutting them in late summer, or even sowing yellow rattle, a small flower that parasitises grass, so reducing growth.  from wildlife-friendly verge and park management.This stuff is popular šC  to help bees and wildflowers, according to a recent Friends of the Earth and Buglife poll. So if you happen to be an apparatchik currently rushing to write a manifesto for a struggling mainstream political party, a commitment to creating 100,000 miles of roadside reserves would be a cheap and imaginative dash of colour.Very visible verges are easily co-opted into conservation. Less easily enjoyed marine life is out of sight, and out of mind. This month, . Marine experts report its dredger šC which ploughs the seabed šC has devastated , a beautiful mollusc that nests on the seabed. Such fishing destroys itself by obliterating the natural nurseries that raise young scallops. Most stupidly, it¡¯s still completely legal.Perhaps I imagined it, but the chilly wind in Norfolk felt particularly invigorating on Friday, . From coal generating around 23% of electricity in 2015 to nothing for a day in 2017, and nothing all year by 2025, when Britain¡¯s last coal power station must close, is a miraculous and hopeful transition.The government has (temporarily) decimated the solar industry . New-generation nuclear . Meanwhile, importing gas and burning wood šC biomass šC . Turning waste sawdust into fuel is a neat idea if small-scale and derived from local, replenishable forests. Importing it from North America on diesel-powered ships is less clever.If we can quit coal, we must quit dirty diesel too, but millions of new electric cars . Ultimately, there¡¯s only one technofix: work and live more smartly, .																																																			