umans now dominate the planet so heavily that we are pushing wild animals and plants into oblivion. Since 1970, the world s wildlife populations have halved, and it s not slowing down. In this new human age, the , we use more than half of the world s land for our food, cities, roads and mining; we use more than 40% of the planet s net primary productivity (that s everything produced by plants and animals); and we control three-quarters of all fresh water. We are the most numerous big animal on earth and the next in line are the animals we ve created through breeding to feed and serve us. Our planetary changes are on such a scale that one in five species is now threatened with extinction, roughly 1,000 times the natural rate.We are, biologists warn, entering the sixth mass extinction event in Earth s history. To put this into perspective, previous such events, including the one that killed off the dinosaurs, were the result of cataclysmic activities such as giant asteroid impacts or supervolcanic eruptions. This one is down to us.It is into this miserable melee of biodiversity loss and habitat destruction that biologist Chris Thomas enters, with his book, hopefully subtitled  How nature is thriving in an age of extinction . Decades of ecological research and travels in some of the most biologically interesting parts of the world, from Borneo to New Zealand (via Yorkshire), have revealed to him the scale of our impact on indigenous wildlife. But in the midst of this global extinction event, he was also discovering how our human changes were encouraging new life: immigrant species; newly emerging hybrids; and subspecies exhibiting freshly evolved adaptations. Such discoveries, which in many cases pertain to increased biodiversity under our influence, have been either ignored or dismissed as valueless by his fellow environmentalists. This thoughtfully argued book, full of rich examples, is Thomas s attempt to  throw off the shackles of a pessimism laden, loss-only view of the world  we are creating and to embrace our Anthropocene ecosystems.This is a book that invites us to take the long view of our current biodiversity crisis, looking from the billions-of-years perspective of ever-changing life on Earth and then forward another million or so. In many respects, Thomas argues, nature is coping surprisingly well in this human era   some two-thirds of animals are living in places where they wouldn t have survived 50 years ago.  We should not ignore the gain side of the great biological equation of life,  he urges.The number of species living in virtually every country or island has already increased because of us, and will continue to increase. This is because life evolves and adapts to changing environments, and we humans are excellent at modifying our environments, from increasing herbivore numbers by hunting large animals and burning forests to clearing savannahs for swaths of artificially bred crops, to accidentally or deliberately introducing species isolated for millennia by geography and tectonics. And we have created a whole suite of novel landscapes, including roads and railways, bridges and jetties, canals and car parks, cities, parks and power stations. On top of this, we re responsible for a recent and rapid global warming, to a degree not seen for tens of thousands of years.These new habitats and warmer temperatures present opportunities for a great many species, and Thomas describes remarkable success stories.  On the whole, more species like it hot than cold,  he writes, pointing out that British butterflies have ventured into northern climes as a result of warming and increased diversity there. The number of bird species moving uphill in Costa Rica s mountainous cloud forests has greatly exceeded the number that have died out. Birds and butterflies, of course, can alter their ranges more easily than many other animals and plants, and Thomas is careful to include caveats in this rosy picture.Introduced species are thriving and in many cases interbreeding to form new hybrid species that would never have existed had humans not brought them together. In Scotland, Japanese sika deer are breeding with native red deer, and immigrant rhododendrons are similarly cross-pollinating with their European cousins, helped by our national passion for gardening.  More new plant species have come into hybrid existence in Britain in the last 300 years than are listed as having died out in the whole of Europe,  Thomas writes.  The current rate at which new species are forming on Earth is starting to look as though it is the highest ever. Rather than celebrating this extraordinary emergence of novel ecosystems and speciation, though, conservationists are instead trying to rid ecosystems of non-natives and restore them to their  pristine  state, often by  rewilding . The problem with recreating the pristine is that it is misplaced nostalgia   the natural world is a dynamic system, so choosing which past to return to is entirely subjective and fraught with difficulties.Past climates in Britain have been far warmer than now with a greater variety of native trees, Thomas notes, and there have also been times when our island was buried under ice. The vast majority of introduced species do no harm to natives and many benefit ecosystems, for example, by pollinating or providing food for others.  Some might discount these new species as weeds and pests but that is a reflection of the human mind,  he writes.Species that we think of as native and worthy of our protection, such as the common house sparrow, only appeared in these isles from the Asian Steppe relatively recently, and then only because we  created somewhat Steppe-like conditions for them in the home counties . Some 10,000 years ago there were no sparrows here at all; in Tudor times they were regarded as a pest. Now they are legally protected despite there being over 10 million in Britain.Thomas calls for a timely rethink of conservation practice. We should protect wildlife in places where it is feasible to do so   this may mean transporting some species to ecosystems where they did not previously occur   and help foster, manage and create novel ecosystems rich in diversity and resilient to our future changes. Instead of wasting our time battling rhododendrons and trying to return to an arbitrary version of the past, he argues, we should instead embrace the  Anthropocene biological revolution , which  will almost certainly represent the sixth mass genesis of new biological diversity .From the perspective of Earth-time, it makes a lot of sense. In the past 500 million years there have been five mass extinctions triggered by supervolcanic eruptions, asteroid impacts and other enormous planetary events that dramatically altered the climate. After each of these, the survivors regrouped, proliferated and evolved. The diversity of plants, animals, bacteria, fungi and other life on Earth is richer now than at any point in time. And so it will be in the future, Thomas argues.  Come back in a million years and we might be looking at several million new species whose existence can be attributed to humans. The problem with this argument is that none of us lives on a millions-of-years timeframe; indeed most struggle to imagine a decade or two hence. We are the lucky beneficiaries of an explosion of life that followed the last mass extinction event, which killed 75% of species on Earth, but presumably that s cold comfort for the dinosaurs. This time it is humans who dominate the planet, and we are causing an extinction event that threatens not just the species we like, but those we depend on. While this engaging, provocative and important book paints a refreshingly optimistic picture of life on Earth, the future for humanity is not so certain. Gaia Vince s  is published by Vintage. is published by Allen Lane. To order a copy for  17 (RRP  20)  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over  10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of  1.99.