o say the Egyptian economy, much reliant on tourism, has seen a turbulent time of late, would be a woeful understatement. As you travel along the Red Sea coast from Hurghada, through Safaga, and El Quseir, the litter-strewn landscape of low hills and desert occasionally gives way to tourism developments and scattered international hotels. Their gardens are still maintained and the palm trees watered, but call in for a drink and the bars and pools are emptier than their designers expected. Equally, many hotels were never completed and desert-worn signs featuring smiling couples who will never visit, lend a post-apocalyptic air.The figures speak for themselves. From a high point in October 2010 of almost one and a half million, tourist arrivals in  were a little under 500, 000 in September 2016; a continuation of a slow decline, (punctuated with significant dips in numbers following acts of terrorism). Egypt¡¯s¡¯ tourism minister, Yehia Rashed, has his work cut out and is on record as stating the country is now safe for tourists. As a regular visitor, I personally feel safe. The request for a bribe though, from the police officer at the gates of Hurghada¡¯s new airport, when a fellow traveller didn¡¯t have their printed flight coupon handy, suggests not all is not quite as it should be.Think of tourism in Egypt, and you¡¯ll be forgiven for thinking of crowded markets in Cairo, the splendours of Giza and Abu Simbel, but this would be missing a major contribution to the tourism economy. The Red Sea and its treasures are less well known internationally than King Tut¡¯s mask or the sphinx, yet staff at dive centres in Sharm El Sheikh on the Sinai Peninsula will tell you that one famous shipwreck šC the SS Thistlegorm šC brings in more foreign income than the pyramids at Giza. In these troubled years, the European-based dive tourism companies have looked to destinations further afield, but the lure of history-rich wrecks, spectacular corals, sunshine and warm water just five hours away keeps the Red Sea firmly in the minds of individual divers. If flights from European airports are returned to previous levels, divers will flock back, perhaps ahead of more mainstream tourists.I can forget much of that for a short while at least. As an underwater photographer and diving journalist I¡¯m here for the sharks. As our boat heads out of port the captain is confident of good weather and a quicker than average crossing to our isolated destination. I¡¯m leaving the dusty streets, the taxi drivers and the tourist shops, and we are heading out, into the blue. The next morning, the water is around twenty-six degrees and we¡¯ve finned back towards the boat from the coral-covered reef wall. We¡¯ve used most of our gas and the plan is to spend the last few minutes of the dive hanging a few metres below the surface, hoping for shark activity. A fellow diver points towards a two-metre shark, cruising past at a leisurely pace, a few pilot fish ahead of its sleek snout, and as I take a series of photos I rise a few metres closer to the surface, much to the understandable annoyance of the dive guide, before correcting my buoyancy. The long, lobed pectoral fins, each tipped with bright white identify it as the ocean-wandering oceanic whitetip, a supreme and graceful predator that was once perhaps the most widespread large animal on the planet, before sharks became so threatened.The fish are deeply curious and use a combination of senses, from their chemosensory ability (not entirely smell, but sort of) to an electrosensory ability, that has no analogue in mammals, used in close
encounters. Oceanics (as they¡¯re often referred to) will come very close, making them a favourite with divers. Just as we realise there are several fish in the water, ranging from small males to a large pregnant female, one young male passes exceptionally close and might have just ¡°bumped¡± me a little to check out the large camera I¡¯m holding. If I¡¯m honest, despite my rational brain telling me it¡¯s not needed, the camera serves as a buffer between me and a fish I know will not attack.As I climb back onto the boat, a fin breaks the surface a few metres away, and while I¡¯m mindful of the shark¡¯s abilities, I realise that beyond mild caution, I have not felt real fear at all. I¡¯ve felt something akin to reverence. These fish that cruise the tropical oceans have shown interest in me; they were curious, aware, and individuals showed unique behaviour, exhibiting preferences in how they cho se to interact.Back on the boat in the lee of the largest of the two El Ikhwa islands (known more commonly as the Brothers) about forty miles from shore, the sharks continue to cruise from boat to boat. I had expected they would shun the noise and commotion of the dive boats and the little rigid-hulled inflatable boats with their noisy outboards, that shuttle divers to and from their entry and exit points. On the contrary, oceanics are attracted to the boats, their noise and chemical signatures and trails in the water. Unlike deeper dwelling sharks like hammerheads, oceanics will scout for food close to the surface and may take mammalian carrion as well as injured fish floundering on the surface, which brings me to the controversial subject of .Sharks are wary, shy animals that in nearly every case will stay away from humans. We are not on their menu, nor do sharks consider us food, but on rare occasions our behaviour and exceptional environmental circumstances can combine and lead to tragedy. In , and a few days later, a woman was killed. The authorities responded by locating and culling several sharks and suspending all water sports activities. Several shark experts commented on just how unusual this event was, not only are sharks rarely seen near beaches, but shark attacks on humans are exceptionally rare. Globally, unprovoked attacks from all sharks, number in the single digits, year on year. It has been suggested that unusually high water temperatures, local overfishing and even the illegal dumping of animal carcasses at sea all contributed to the attack, disrupting behaviour in one lone individual. On the other hand, images have surfaced of snorkelers and swimmers reaching out towards a passing oceanic, almost touching it. Although these fish are not mindless predators, they are not pets to be approached without caution, where they may feel threatened.Dive guides and operators at the Brothers and other shark hotspots, aware of the damage that could be done to the industry, šC not to mention the sharks themselves šC if a cull was advocated following an incident, do not allow swimming and snorkelling and are keen to encourage divers to leave the water swiftly and with minimum fuss. Hence my frustration at unnecessarily breaking the water¡¯s surface earlier. No one wants to see another negative encounter; the Egyptian economy cannot afford to have beaches or dive sites closed and researchers and conservationists would strongly argue against a knee-jerk cull. Many argue the response in 2010 was, at best, pointless.In recent months, in fact just before I swam with the sharks at the Brothers, some disturbing images were circulated online and posted on the Facebook page of the Hurghada Environmental Protection and  Association (HEPCA). These images showed oceanics that had been killed and dumped on the reef adjacent to Big Brother island, with their fins intact. Shark-fishing for any purpose including finning, is banned in these waters, and HEPCA, a non-profit organisation, has stated it will work to identify the culprits who illegally killed the fish.Clearly self-defeating for a country desperate for tourist income, the loss of sharks is indicative of a nation that has yet to come to terms with the competing demands of mass low-budget tourism and a tourism sector dependent upon a thriving ecosystem. Oceanics, once common, are now classed as vulnerable by . Recently, for example, footage has emerged of lorries dumping sand on top of reefs to create beaches for hotel development. Research from HEPCA suggests that a single shark can be worth $200,000 (USD) to the economy annually. A staggering sum, given that oceanics can live up to forty years. Whilst this might be unpleasant to many, including myself, who regard sharks as intrinsically valuable and important players in the reef ecosystem, we seem to be locked into a situation where the only way to preserve sharks is to see them as demonstrably more valuable alive than dead. If that value comes with a dollar sign, then with sadness I say: so be it.																																																			