unrise, Golden Harvest, Cheerfulness, Magnificence, Soleil d Or   the names of cultivated daffodil varieties are as evocative as the spring flowers themselves. But how do you feel about hefty suburban daffs in wild places? Britain has a  (my dad used to spend weeks in the woods studying this slender flower), but many nature lovers dislike the incursion of brash cultivated varieties into our countryside.Naturalist Mark Avery has written about his hatred of   daffodils anywhere wilder than gardens or suburban verges. They re like graffiti in the countryside, he says, triggering a debate about belonging and beauty   particularly pertinent in what is . This may sound like an obscure sub-genre for botany geeks, but invasive species   from rhododendron to Japanese knotweed in Britain   raise big ethical questions, and practical challenges for our ecosystems. Invasive species are one of the prime contributors to , after habitat loss.But the language is problematic.  Invasive  suggests the species is to blame, when it is usually moved by globetrotting humans. Protecting  native species  sounds like nativism, or even racism, which is why many people instinctively side with animal rights campaigners against proposals to control (ie kill) non-native species.We need another word for species moved by humans on to islands or continents where they cause harm. And  weed  won t do either. Killing destructive exotic species is not analogous to anti-migrant prejudice (although, intriguingly, history suggests that native species protections  in times of anxieties about human migration), because we are a single species.Globalisation is creating homogenised ecosystems. Unique local plants and animals are being erased by species that accompany us on our planetary march. We risk substituting the extraordinary range of life on earth for a denuded landscape of feral cats, rats and goats: admirable, intelligent creatures with a right to life but also possessing destructive tendencies. Like us, really.Who lives and who dies? We tend to be more protective of invasive  than  or    but does the fungus that causes  have a right to life too?A pragmatist would scientifically measure the damage caused and act to stop extinctions. So splashes of domesticated daffodils beyond suburbia get a reprieve because they re not decimating other species. And there s another benefit: if they re not dug up, they may stop the needless scalping of roadside verges that destroys so many wilder flowers.The  is being debated in parliament this week after a second petition against the expanded cull   to reduce cattle TB   reached 100,000 signatures. Politicians can t add much to this polarised debate, but scientists might: an  gathered by Queen guitarist Brian May will this week discuss the latest developments in detecting and vaccinating against bovine TB in badgers and cattle. There s no quick fix, but the government has conspicuously  during four years of culling. How long will it perpetuate this costly mistake?Britain has (nearly) triumphed in Europe. The , a grand old Welsh tree, which caused a bypass to be bent around it, came second (with 16,203 votes) in the  contest. Last year s  got 237.So something is happening. Trees are in unprecedented peril   from city councils such as , from    but we are waking up to , for other species and for us too.