utrage from thousands of would-be passengers at  that nine young activists should delay them for an hour or two by rowing across a dock and occupying a taxiway. But consternation too, at the Daily Mail and even among some of the English liberal middle classes. These people  who had paddled across the docks in Newham, one of the poorest boroughs in London, were supposedly with the group called Black Lives Matter. But   shock!   they were all white. And black people, as you know, are not interested in climate change or air pollution anyway. The , saying claims that air pollution discriminated against minorities were  ludicrous .Well, times have changed. The days when only black people should protest about issues that affect black people   and when climate and air pollution were separate issues, and people in east  didn t need to bother about what happens in Africa or the US   have long gone.It s time for a catch-up. One of the reasons why the nine paddled over the dock was because City airport, right in the heart of one of the largest cities on Earth, has been allowed to continuously expand. It is a scandal, and would be challenged in nearly every country of the world.Moreover, the number of planes landing at and taking off from the airport has massively grown, the number of passengers has , and the planes are far bigger now than they were. Flight paths are  and the result is .Yet City airport s expansion has been shovelled through local and national planning with minimum consultation and without much public debate, even as air pollution in London is known by the government .But there are other reasons why the nine crossed the pond. East London, with some of the most deprived, blighted and polluted communities in Europe, is targeted by the road-building lobby and Transport for London for not just one more Thames four-lane road bridge or tunnel, .If these are built, Newham and Tower Hamlets boroughs, in the north, and Greenwich and Bexley, south of the river, will each get massive new roads and tens of thousands of extra cars ploughing through them every day. Transport for London claims that the new crossings will bring relief from congestion. The reality, say the experts, is that they will bring extra traffic and pollution.Air pollution in Silvertown, where one tunnel is proposed, is already  the European legal limit. In parts of Tower Hamlets, where another crossing is planned, it is worse. According to the government, 98 people in Newham alone died from air pollution in 2010.Residents in these boroughs have long been dumped on by governments. They get the sewage works, the concrete works and the pollution, and now they can expect more heart and lung diseases, more pressure on the National health, more costs and more personal heartache. Unsuprisingly, many are pretty furious.Then there s the climate. As Asad Rehman of Friends of the Earth says, when it comes to climate change, . Devastating floods, droughts and famine, mainly affecting the lives and livelihoods of millions of poor and black communities in developing countries, is the stark reality of climate change already. This is going to get much worse if rich countries such as the UK don t do more to cut their emissions faster and deeper, and sign up to the Paris agreement.It s the same in London. Average emissions of business people flying from City airport are almost certainly way more than those of the average person living in Newham or Tower Hamlet boroughs.Moreover, there is plenty of evidence that black people and ethnic minorities are much more likely to be affected by bad air. Research first , and  by Imperial College London and the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in the Netherlands have shown that the average person identifying as black or black-British African in the UK is exposed to much higher levels of pollutants than the average urban white person.Children, older people, those with asthma and cyclists are all more likely to be affected by poor air quality, as are poorer communities and minority ethnic ones. The study concluded that the most deprived 10% of areas in England are subject to 41% higher concentrations of nitrogen dioxide from transport and industry than the average. The biggest differences in air pollution levels according to socioeconomic status were in London.Agendas and groupings have merged. We know that to reduce climate emissions we need to tackle air pollution as well. It little matters who takes the lead in challenging power or under which banner people choose to act. There is no longer ownership of police atrocities, or pollution or injustice. The only certain things these days in the environment is that racism thrives and that pollution follows the poor.