ver the years, politicians of all stripes have had big ideas for Whitehall s business department. When he was industry secretary in the 1970s, Tony Benn thought state ownership, planning agreements with companies and protectionism were the answer to Britain s productivity problem.Twenty years later, Michael Heseltine said he would intervene before breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner to promote the interests of UK plc. When Gordon Brown was in deep trouble during the Great Recession of 2008-09, he wanted a big beast to provide support for key sectors of the economy. Burying the hatchet with an old foe, he called on Peter Mandelson to do the job.It s fair to say that  has yet to attain the status of a Benn, a Heseltine or a Mandelson. He may indeed prove to be one of those ministers who make little impression on a department that has traditionally had one of Whitehall s fastest-spinning revolving doors. There have been a couple of dozen industry secretaries since Benn was sacked by Harold Wilson after the first EU referendum in 1975: in those 41 years there have been just 10 chancellors.Even so, Clark has something never granted to any of his predecessors. He not only has a licence to intervene   it is part of his job description. Clark is minister for business, energy and   in one of the most eye-catching changes resulting from the arrival of Theresa May   .The message is clear. Gone are the days of laissez-faire, when Conservative industry secretaries thought it was their job to get out the way and allow free rein to market forces. Sajid Javid, an adherent to that philosophy, was shown the door in May s reshuffle after an undistinguished year in the job.Clark s rebadged department is a tacit admission that the rebalancing of the economy promised by George Osborne when he became chancellor six years ago has been an abject failure. There has been no  march of the makers , as witnessed by the fact that manufacturing output is still almost 10% below where it was when the Great Recession began in 2008, and the UK is running a balance of payments deficit unmatched in its peacetime history.Such growth as there has been during the economy s recovery has been driven by the housing market and concentrated in London and the south-east. As May now appears to appreciate, voting patterns in last month s referendum are closely linked to the grotesquely unbalanced state of the economy.Talking about an industrial strategy is not, of course, the same as actually delivering one. And such has been the relentless hollowing out of manufacturing over the past four decades that it will take time and patience for a new approach to bear fruit.It is pretty clear what needs to be done. Clark should, as Mandelson did, seek to ensure that the UK competes in the growth industries of the future, such as green tech, genomics and robotics. He needs to import the German model of long-term finance. His department should be looking to the US to see how ideas can be spun off from universities and commercialised. The tendency of the private sector to hoard cash provides a strong case for a national investment bank.The chances of all this being achieved in this parliament are remote. It may be that the government s attention will be so taken up with Brexit that it won t have the bandwidth to flesh out a meaningful new approach. There might be a brain drain of officials to the Brexit department; Clark might prove to be not up to the job; the Treasury might stamp all over the new philosophy if it starts to look too threatening.But at this stage, it would be wrong to cavil. Putting an industrial strategy at the heart of the business department is just a start. Yet it is welcome nonetheless.She can t possibly mean it. That, roughly speaking, has been the private reaction of big-company bosses to Theresa May s idea that employees should be represented on boards.The size of the sample of opinion is necessarily small. It was, after all, only on Monday that May, still facing competition from Andrea Leadsom for the leadership of the Tory party, made her pledge in a campaign speech.By Wednesday evening May was prime minister and the big beasts of the corporate world were raising detailed objections. One chief executive of a FTSE 100 financial services firm argued that the proposal would be unworkable in his industry.His point was that, in a post-crisis world, regulators were stricter about who could be a director of a big bank or insurer. A high level of financial competence and experience is a central requirement of the senior managers  regime. How are those rules compatible with appointing employees   possibly junior employees or middle-rankers   to boards?Up to a point, it s a reasonable objection. It would be silly to rip up the senior managers  regime, which is a sensible recognition that big financial firms are different. When they fail, the damage can spill into the rest of the economy.But a blunt  it s impossible  is too unimaginative. A new class of employee director could be created for financial firms with lesser regulatory demands. After all, the role is meant to bring expertise that the usual suspects can t   a real-world perspective on issues like executive pay.At that point, the old guard tends to raise a second objection: firms are owned by shareholders and it s up to them who joins the board. Strictly speaking, that correct. But, again, it misses May s point that the scrutiny provided by non-executives, when  drawn from the same, narrow social and professional circles as the executive team , has not been good enough.In truth, May s idea does not amount to a revolution. One employee director on a board will not change corporate culture overnight. But it might turn the dial slightly. In an age when trust in business is so low, far-sighted firms should consider the advantages instead of instinctively throwing up obstacles. May should keep pressing. has come up with a final bill for the cost of the Deepwater Horizon accident in 2010: $62bn ( 47bn). The British oil company has said will take another $2.5bn hit for the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico spill in its second-quarter accounts on 26 July.The vast financial punishment is made up of fines, liabilities and other payments resulting from that one fateful day when a well blowout killed 11 workers and caused the biggest environmental disaster in US history.The financial toll on BP contrasts sharply with the 1988 Piper Alpha accident in the North Sea when 167 people died. Occidental Petroleum of the US was not fined and made just one compensation payout of $100m.BP could easily have been sunk by this episode, just like its rig. But $62bn later, it is still producing. And that is quite an achievement.