very weekday, millions of primary school children across the UK put their lives at risk. Break time brings relief for busy teachers and is often met with screams of delight as children run out onto the playground. But in many of our major cities, tens of thousands of children in hundreds of schools, nurseries and colleges are at risk as they inhale  breaching EU air quality standards.Across the UK, more than 40,000 people die prematurely from diesel pollution, at a cost of  20bn each year, according to the . , with each car producing many times more fumes than laboratory tests had previously indicated. The  has shown that the motor industry cannot be trusted and the royal colleges  report finds that babies and children are particularly at risk. Foetuses in pregnant women exposed to air pollution are more likely to suffer effects to their lungs, heart and neurological development. Children in , areas where the air quality problem is most serious, have a 10% reduced lung capacity and have more respiratory problems, together with effects on their nervous, immune and cardiovascular systems. This leads to physical and mental health problems in later life.The government has compelling evidence to act now. Instead it fears the backlash of diesel drivers who bought their cars in good faith and are still encouraged to do so by lower vehicle tax rates. The public-health risks of diesel particulates have been well known since the days of Margaret Thatcher. However, the impact of nitrogen oxides and the scale of underestimated pollution from lab tests compounded by the sheer volume of cars has now become a public-health catastrophe. That s why the demand for a  grows. Meanwhile, the supreme court has demanded that the government produces a clean air strategy, to fulfil our EU air quality obligations. Today, I publish my  to give shape and ambition to the government s plan.Britain needs to take bold leadership. We already know that four capital cities   Paris, Madrid, Athens and Mexico City    and that the markets are investing in zero-emissions futures. Tesla, founded in 2003, produces just    $3bn more than Ford, founded a century earlier, which produces 6.6m vehicles.The clean air bill is a route map to reach World  Organization air quality standards by tackling emissions in our cities, ports and airports. It provides the signals and incentives for consumers and producers to change their behaviour to do so.Rather than penalising diesel car-owners who bought in good faith, the bill calls for recall and refit of cars, fiscal incentives and scrappage schemes largely funded by manufacturers for drivers to switch to vehicles that produce fewer   or ideally, zero   emissions. It provides for a national electric and hydrogen refuelling network and gives local authorities a responsibility to measure and publicise pollution levels, in particular close to vulnerable groups such as children and the elderly. Councils will have powers to restrict access or introduce pollution charges if communities so wish, based on local evidence.What s more, new powers are proposed to combat diesel pollution belching into communities from idling ships in port by requiring a switch to port-provided electric power. The bill also addresses freight transport, pollution at airports and  cheat devices  installed on cars. Overall, the bill aims to make our right to clean air a reality.Our first duty as parents is to protect our children. Break time, walking to the shops and football in the park shouldn t be life-or-death decisions beyond our control. They needn t be. For the sake of all our children, let s do something about it now.