We decided to go to Malta because we were fed up with the inactivity from NGOs about the endless trapping and killing of migratory birds there.We first went four years ago, then started to go annually to liaise with the Committee Against Bird Slaughter. It is an incredible organisation that attracts volunteers from all over Europe. When we first went, we put a video report online every evening showing what was happening   a daily diary detailing the killing of birds   and we got an enormous amount of press for this.This time, we went after the shooting season to show how the legislation to protect birds was being abused. I was accused of assault and was taken to court. I knew I would be exonerated as we had recorded the whole incident.This sort of intimidation is commonplace, and allowed us to expose the difficulty those who fight the killing of birds face every day. We are now urging the public, through social media, to get involved. I am a firm believer that sometimes the best way to make a change is to make trouble. The attempted intimidation I witnessed this week only fuels the fire.I will be on Earth Day s March for Science today because I strongly believe that evidence-based decision-making should be at the forefront of the political agenda. Today, decisions are being made through self-interest, and not science-based facts. However, I am aware that when you take this stand, you open yourself up to an enormous amount of bullying and abuse. That has become very much part of my life. I am not intimidated by it. As proven by my experience in Malta, intimidation is possibly the worst thing my opponents can do, as it only shows their lack of reason. I have faith in the science to prove my arguments.We have gone through a period of people being very disillusioned with environmental activism, but now I think we are going to see a surge in democratic, peaceful and effective action, as caring is not enough. We must take action. I want to try to slow the juggernaut of decay and destruction that is so damaging our environment and all the other species we share it with. I see that as a duty. I just want to keep enough of it alive so that when we are able to elect decision-makers who will follow this through, there will be enough left to save.Whether this means saving the trees in Sheffield or the birds currently being slaughtered in Malta, we have to keep going.