Whenever they hold one of their  to reject and deny established climate science, congressional Republicans invariably trot out contrarian scientist , who disputes . In doing so, , but there s a nugget of truth in his argument. Although the discrepancy isn t nearly as large as Christy s misleading chart suggests, atmospheric temperatures seem not to have warmed quite as fast since the turn of the century as climate model simulations anticipated they would.How you react to this information is a good test of whether you re a skeptic or a denier. A denier will declare  aha, the models are wrong, therefore we don t need any climate policies!  A skeptic will ask what s causing the difference between the observational estimates and model simulations.There are many possible explanations. Maybe the tricky and  of the atmospheric temperature made by instruments on orbiting satellites are biased. Maybe there s something wrong with the models, or our understanding of Earth s atmosphere. Maybe the inputs used in the model simulations are flawed. The answer is likely a combination of these possibilities, but , Christy tried to place the blame entirely on the models, with a denier-style framing:And , Christy offered his unsupported speculation that the discrepancy was a result of climate models being too sensitive to rising greenhouse gases:In , a team climate scientists led by Ben Santer sought to answer this question. They effectively disproved Christy s assertion that the discrepancy was due to models being too sensitive to the increased greenhouse effect. Instead, the main culprit seems to be incorrect inputs used in the climate model simulations.The issue is that climate model simulations are run using specific scenarios. These scenarios assume specific changes in factors that influence global temperature and climate changes (known as  forcings ), like rising levels of atmospheric greenhouse gases and changes in solar and volcanic activity. Climate models don t make  predictions;  rather, they make  projections  of how temperatures and other climatological factors will change in response to those forcing input scenarios. There s also a random component known as  internal variability  due to factors like unpredictable ocean cycles. An infamous example of deniers exploiting this wonky technical point to mislead policymakers happened in 1998. Congressional Republicans invited fossil fuel-funded Pat Michaels to testify ahead of the Kyoto international climate negotiations. , Michaels evaluated a , but deleted all except the scenario that was the least like the actual forcing changes that had occurred over the prior decade. By only looking at Hansen s model projection under a scenario where greenhouse gases rose much faster than they had in reality, Michaels deceptively made it appear as though Hansen s climate model had vastly over-predicted global warming.Santer s team found a similar issue in comparing simulated and observed changes in atmospheric temperatures over the past few decades:For example, were Christy right that models are too sensitive to rising greenhouse gases, they should be systematically wrong during the entire period for which we have observational data. On the contrary, aside from a small discrepancy in the late 20 century that can be explained by natural internal variability, Santer s team showed that the difference between model simulations and observations only begins around 1998. A problem with model sensitivity would also show up in studies looking at global temperature changes in response to large volcanic eruptions, which create a big change in forcing and temperature. But  that Christy favors, and as Santer s team notes:On the other hand, research has identified a number of real-world cooling influences in the early 21 century that weren t accurately represented in the climate model simulation scenarios. The sun went into an unusually quiet cycle, there was a series of moderate volcanic eruptions, and the boom in Chinese coal power plants added sunlight-blocking pollution to the atmosphere. Using statistical tests, Santer s team showed that those unexpected cooling effects combined with shifts in ocean cycles best explained the model-data discrepancy in atmospheric temperatures over the past 20 years.Unsurprisingly, in blogs and on Twitter, deniers tried to spin the results of this study in their favor. Some claimed that the paper admitted there was a  pause  or  hiatus  in global warming. In reality, the paper used neither term, but did use the phrase  slowdown  15 times, including explicitly clarifying that it was a  temporary  slowdown. In other words, the study clearly   that global warming  paused;  instead, the rise in atmospheric temperatures temporarily slowed due to the aforementioned decline in solar activity, increase in pollution from coal plants and volcanic eruptions, and shifts on ocean cycles.Other contrarians have exhibited their confirmation bias by claiming the paper is an admission that climate models are wrong. As statistician George Box said,  all models are wrong, but some are useful.  Declaring that climate models are wrong and tossing them in the waste bin is a brain-dead denial move. What any skeptical scientific mind should want to know is why they re imperfect   what s causing the difference between simulations and reality, and what can we learn from that?The answer in this case is that those forcings (solar activity, coal pollution, volcanic eruptions) and ocean cycles acted to temporarily slow the warming of atmospheric temperatures in a way that wasn t included in the climate model simulation inputs. But that shouldn t assuage our concerns about climate change   ; nor will volcanic eruptions, coal pollution, or ocean cycles. These are all short-term effects that all had a cooling effect over the past 20 years, during which time the planet nevertheless kept on warming due to the overpowering force of human carbon pollution.The , and paint  if we follow the status quo scenario of burning lots of fossil fuels. But if we can reduce human carbon pollution, we ll shift to a scenario with a long-term global warming slowdown.