With reference to Michael McCarthy s article (, 1 April), I am a forest school leader in an urban primary school where forest school is part of the curriculum. Children also attend an after-school club working towards completing the John Muir award, which encourages conservation through exploration. Accredited level one in forest school is a current option for young people aged 14-plus but is not being commonly accessed.Forest school exposes children to nature while having fun and helping them develop physically, socially and emotionally. I have seen the positive impact on children s behaviour as well as their interest in, enjoyment of and care for the natural world. The latest excitements have been robins nesting and frogs spawning, both of which have initiated some interesting conversations. Last week s school holiday activity was by bus to the countryside. We cooked food, played games, paddled in streams, made and raced boats, climbed trees, created tree faces and generally engaged in nature s playground, while observing and respecting habitats. Our latest development as a school is to provide forest school training at levels one to three.Opportunities for children to learn about and engage with?the natural world do exist and with a collaborative approach could be so much more accessible throughout the education system. It does not need to cost a lot of money and from my experience the benefits both to children and nature are definitely worth it. The real problem of air pollution in schools (, 8 April) is not just from external traffic emissions but from bad indoor air quality. The World Health Organisation and many other bodies have confirmed that indoor air pollution is five times more dangerous than external. Hazardous emissions from modern building materials containing formaldehyde, isocyanates and flame retardants cause respiratory and allergic problems. A school in Manchester was recently found to have formaldehyde levels 10 times higher than WHO safe limits. This caused teachers and children to have sore throats, irritated eyes and breathing problems, not to speak of the potential cancer risk. While we should try to reduce vehicle emissions, this is blinding us to the much greater risk from hazardous chemicals built into school and other buildings. These chemicals affect most school buildings across the UK, not just in the traffic hot spots shown in your map (, 4 April). Indoor air pollution in increasingly airtight, badly ventilated houses and buildings is a much greater scandal than traffic pollution.																																																			