The public is invited to help reassemble a giant jigsaw in a  museum, 157 years after two Somerset fishermen went out to catch a  great fish  and brought back a northern bottlenosed whale more than eight metres (26ft) long.Their catch was a local sensation: the carcass went on a west country tour then the skeleton was displayed for years hanging from the ceiling of the museum in Weston-super-Mare. It was dismantled in 1948 and transferred to . As there has never been space to reassemble it, the bones have been scattered across cupboards, drawers and racks in several storerooms at two sites, with only the skull on display.The museum manager, Jack Ashby, said though the whale was the largest specimen in its collection, because all the bones have never been laid out, the weekend will be the first chance to check if it is the complete skeleton. Any gaps would not be surprising in a collection that includes a   now restored and standing on a 3D-printed replica fourth leg   and half a dodo rediscovered in a drawer labelled as a crocodile.All the whale bones will be brought together for cleaning this weekend and the public is invited to drop in to help: there is 157 years of grime to remove as well as the bones to sort and lay out.  The vast majority of most museums  specimens are not on public display,  Ashby said.  The Whale Weekender will allow people to get very hands-on with one of those specimens   and we are really excited about it. The whale, whose scientific name is is rarely spotted as it dives for fish and squid in the deepest seas. However, one made headlines in 2006 . Despite attempts to get it safely back out to sea, the animal died. It is now in the Natural History Museum s collection.The Grant s whale will probably have to go back into the storeroom   but this time cleaned, checked and safe for another century. In a museum packed with specimens from floor to ceiling, there was still no room to display the animal s full splendour, Ashby said.																																																			