The heatwave that engulfed southeastern Australia at the end of last week has seen heat records continue to tumble.On Saturday 11 February, as  suffered through the heatwave s peak, temperatures soared to 47  in Richmond, 50km northwest of Sydney, while 87 bushfires raged across the state, amid catastrophic fire conditions.On that day, most of NSW experienced temperatures at least 12C above normal for this time of year. In White Cliffs, the overnight minimum was 34.2, a new record for the state s .On Friday, the average maximum temperature right across NSW hit 42.4, beating the previous February record of 42.0. The new record stood for all of 24 hours before it was smashed again on Saturday, as the whole state averaged 44.0 at its peak. At this time, NSW was the hottest place on earth.A degree or two here or there might not sound like much, but to put it in cricketing parlance, those temperature records are the equivalent of a modern-day test batsman retiring with an average of over 100   the feat of outdoing Don Bradman s fabled 99.94   and would undoubtedly be front-page news.And still the records continue to fall. Mungindi, on the border of NSW and Queensland, broke the Australian record of 50 days in a row above 35, set just four years ago at Bourke airport, with the new record now at 52 days.Meanwhile, two days after that sweltering Saturday we woke to find the fires ignited during the heatwave , with the small town of Uarbry, east of Dunedoo, .This heatwave is all the more noteworthy when we consider that the  and the conditions that ordinarily influence our weather are firmly in neutral. This means we should expect average, not sweltering, temperatures.Since Christmas, much of eastern Australia has been in a flux of extreme temperatures. This increased frequency of heatwaves shows a , which is set to continue as the human influence on the climate deepens.It is all part of a rapid warming trend that over the past decade has seen new heat records in Australia outnumber new cold records by Let s be clear, this is not natural. Climate scientists have long been saying that we would feel the impacts of human-caused climate change in heat records first, before noticing the upward swing in average temperatures (although that is ). This heatwave is simply the latest example.What s more, in just a few decades  time, summer conditions like these will be .The useful thing scientifically about heatwaves is that we can estimate the role that climate change plays in these individual events. This is a relatively new field known as  event attribution , which has .Using the , we looked at the role of human-induced climate change in this latest heatwave, as we have for ?previously.We compared the likelihood of such a heatwave in model simulations that factor in human greenhouse gas emissions, compared with simulations in which there is no such human influence. Since 2017 has only just begun, we used model runs representing 2014, which was similarly an El Ni?o-neutral year, while also experiencing similar levels of human influence on the climate.Based on this analysis, we found that heatwaves at least as hot as this one are now twice as likely to occur. In the current climate, a heatwave of this severity and extent occurs, on average, once every 120 years, so is still quite rare. However, without human-induced climate change, this heatwave would only occur once every 240 years.In other words, the waiting time for the recent east Australian heatwave has halved. As climate change worsens in the coming decades, the waiting time will reduce even further.Our results show very clearly the influence of climate change on this heatwave event. They tell us that what we saw last weekend is a taste of what our future will bring, unless humans can rapidly and deeply cut our greenhouse emissions.Our increasingly fragile electricity networks will struggle to cope, as the  showed. It is worth noting that the large number of rooftop solar panels in NSW may have helped to avert such a crisis this time around.Our hospital emergency departments also feel the added stress of heat waves. When  from the heatwave that preceded the Black Saturday bushfires the Victorian Institute of Forensic Medicine resorted to . The Victorian heatwave of January 2014 saw , along with significant increases in emergency department presentations and ambulance callouts.Infrastructure breaks down during heatwaves, as we saw in 2009 when . It can also strain Australia s beloved sporting events, as the .These impacts have led state governments and other bodies to investigate heatwave management strategies, while our colleagues at the Bureau of Meteorology have developed a  for Australia.These are likely to be just the beginning of strategies needed to combat heatwaves, with conditions currently regarded as extreme set to be the . With the ramifications of extreme weather clear to everyone who experienced this heatwave, there is  to talk about how we can ready ourselves.We urgently need to discuss the health and economic impacts of heatwaves, and how we are going to cope with more of them in the future.  																																																			