The heads of some of the largest and most influential American technology companies expressed their  deep disappointment  at Donald Trump s decision to withdraw the US from the Paris climate accord. In separate statements and messages on social media, leaders of Apple, Google, Twitter, Amazon, Facebook, Tesla, Microsoft and IBM declared climate change an  urgent  threat that required a global effort to combat.  Decision to withdraw from the #ParisAgreeement was wrong for our planet,  said Apple CEO Tim Cook tweeted on Thursday.  Apple is committed to fight climate change and we will never waver. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey called the decision  incredibly shortsighted  and a  move backwards by the federal government . He also retweeted several stories and statements disapproving of Trump s move to extract the US from the Paris agreement, including a message from the new French president, Emmanuel . Facebook CEO Mark Zuckererg said Trump s decision  puts our children s future at risk . He said the social media giant was committed to ensuring that every new data center is powered by 100% renewable energy.  Stopping climate change is something we can only do as a global community, and we have to act together before it s too late,  Zuckerberg  in a Facebook post.Google CEO Sundar Pichai :  Disappointed with today s decision. Google will keep working hard for a cleaner, more prosperous future for all. , the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, followed through with his promise to step down from two of Trump s business advisory councils if the president removed the US from the global climate agreement.IBM said in a  that the tech company  supported and still supports US participation in the Paris agreement . IBM said, however, confirmed that its CEO, Ginni Rometty, will remain on Trump s business advisory council. IBM believes that it is easier to lead outcomes by being at the table, as a participant in the agreement, rather than from outside it,  the statement said. Microsoft president Brad Smith said in a statement the company has been a  steadfast supporter of the Paris agreement  and was therefore  disappointed with today s decision by the White House . Smith said his company had worked for months to persuade Trump to remain in the Paris agreement, though ultimately that effort came up short.  We ve sent letters to and held meeting on this topic with senior officials in the state department and the White House. And in the past month, we ve joined with other American business leaders to take out full-page ads in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal and New York Post, urging the administration to keep the United States in the Paris agreement,  Smith said in a statement.Microsoft was part of handful of influential technology firms behind an eleventh-hour push to keep the US in the Paris climate accord ahead of his Thursday announcement in the White House rose garden.  Climate change presents both business risks and business opportunities,  read a letter signed by more than two dozen companies and published as a full-page advertisement in several US newspapers on Thursday morning.  Continued US participation in the agreement benefits US businesses and the US economy in many ways. 																																																			