The final day to   on Sadiq Khan s plans for improving London s air quality is Friday, 29 July. Submissions can be accepted until one minute to midnight, so there s no time lose. Khan s main proposals, , are as follows:Khan also wants  for London (TfL) to require all new buses operating in London from 2018 to be hybrid or zero emission vehicles and produce plans for a diesel vehicle scrappage scheme in the hope that national government will take them up. He also favours supplying better information for Londoners about pollution levels in the city.These ideas have received a pretty warm welcome from environmentalists, including the Clean Air in London (CAL) campaign and Russell. They are recognised as representing a big advance on the more cautious and, some say,  Johnson took under  of European Union fines. But how far will Khan go? How far could and should he?CAL has given Khan a   for his initiative, but still says  it s not good enough . Rather than fining vehicles for emission standard infractions, CAL wants a straight ban on all diesel motors in high pollution areas.  The so-called ULEZ is nothing of the sort,  they say and argue that it is  mathematically impossible  for London to comply with World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels until at least 2025 unless diesel is outlawed.This view is shared in a new  (IPPR), which says  it is likely that diesel cars will have to be completely phased out on London s road over the next decade  in order to comply with legal and WHO NO2 limits and WHO limits for  particulate matter  - microscopic bits of soot and dirt generated by motor vehicles. CAL also calls for a simplification of what could end up as an array of overlapping emission charging schemes into a single, London-wide one.When Khan launched his consultation at Great Ormond Street Hospital earlier this month, I asked him about a diesel ban. Why not just do it and make a really dramatic difference to air quality right away? Or was part of the thinking on the ULEZ scheme that it would bring in some handy cash for TfL? He replied that his plans were  cost-neutral  and encouraged me to submit ideas to the consultation. This was touching, though I imagine others will have covered that ground better than I could.As for a fully unified, pan-London emissions charging regime, it s understood that Khan s officers regard it as a very interesting idea and have been looking at something similar in California. It would be a long-term goal, but still worthy of examination in the mayor s consultation. As I write, you have just over 24 hours to help make that happen. Start from . 																																																			