The environment has been shut out of this election. Economic growth has provided the world with abundant food, medicine, energy and raw materials. However, unmanaged it is destroying the ecosystem, wiping out fauna, flora, forests and seas. An ecological meltdown will cause economic ruin and political turmoil, and threaten the very existence of human civilisation. Air pollution causes 40,000 premature deaths in the UK each year. With greenhouse gases and habitat depletion, together, they are having a catastrophic effect on our environment, contributing to global climate change, wildlife, crop and forest damage, rising sea levels, floods and haze. Whole countries could drown under water or starve under drought, driving migration and climate wars.The path to a sustainable future requires the creative power of our best scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, backed by the courage of politicians to think long term.  is an act of environmental vandalism on a global scale. And , Theresa May is aiding and abetting him. Only the Lib Dems combine the ambition to bring forward climate change targets and support for the Paris agreement with an entrepreneurial approach to investing in cutting-edge clean technologies, and commitment to international institutions to enable Britain to be a world leader in protecting the global environment. Britain has been part of the cause. By supporting the Lib Dems on 8 June, Britain can also be part of the solution.    Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens are each too tribal to form a progressive alliance, but we voters can help. I modestly offer you Hugh s rules:1 If the seat was won by one of the above parties in 2015, vote for the incumbent.2 If the seat was won by a Tory, vote for the party that came second in 2015.And don t worry about Jeremy Corbyn. He could only lead a coalition that, as in other countries, will mitigate any extremes. And Keir Starmer will lead the Brexit negotiating team.  The list of signatories on the first letter above was amended on 14 June 2017 to remove the name of the business Paul Hennemeyer works for, which had been added during the editing process. Also, we have been asked to make clear that all signatories of the letter signed it in a personal capacity.																																																			