The clean energy target recommended by the chief scientist, Alan Finkel, was designed so future governments could ratchet up the ambition of the emissions cuts, Finkel has said on the ABC s Q&A program.Labor s climate and energy spokesman, Mark Butler, indicated that Labor would do exactly that, if the mechanism was instituted and they then won government.In a landmark report to the Council of Commonwealth Governments last week, Finkel recommended the government adopt a clean energy target, which would make energy users subsidise cleaner forms of electricity generation.But, in the report, Finkel modelled that mechanism with a target of just 28% reductions in emissions from the electricity sector by 2030, which he said was  as per Australia s international obligations under the Paris agreement , and said deeper cuts would require another review.That advice came under fire, since to achieve a 28% cut in emissions across the entire economy, as Australia committed to in Paris, it is widely agreed much deeper cuts are needed in the electricity sector.The chief executive of the Climate Council, Amanda McKenzie, levelled this criticism at the report. It doesn t go far enough,  she said.  It doesn t get emissions down as far as they need to go. She also said it needed to drive coal-fired power stations to be retired sooner and needed to ensure renewable energy made up more than 50% of the mix by 2030. But a member of the audience commented:  The important thing is bipartisan support first and if Mark [Butler] is fortunate enough to win government he can ratchet it up. Butler said:  That s the plan.  Asked by host Tony Jones to explain further, Butler said:  To get Josh [Frydenberg] to do all the hard work. Then lose and hand it over. In a more serious tone, Butler indicated he did not think the 28% cut was deep enough, saying  it is an open question  and that Labor would seek advice on the appropriate level of cuts.The government s Climate Change Authority  that question and suggested cuts twice as deep could be appropriate. Finkel confirmed that he designed the scheme so that it could be scaled up by future governments but warned that plans to immediately change the ambition of the scheme could harm investor confidence. Pressed by Jones, Finkel said his clean energy target was not a price on carbon, despite retailers having to pay generators to emit less carbon, insisting it was an  incentive .  You re putting an incentive on low emissions and you can interpret it however you wish,  Finkel said.Butler had a different view.  Of course it s a price on carbon. It s not a direct price but there s clearly a shadow price,  he said. What this does is to give a price advantage to low-emissions technology. It seeks to shift the relative costs of different types of electricity generation based on their carbon emissions.  Following former prime minister Tony Abbott s interjection into the debate this week, saying the proposed CET could be a  tax on coal , the energy minister, , was forced to distance himself from the comments. It s not a tax on coal,  Frydenberg said. He said his Coalition colleagues were keen that whatever policy they adopt  allow coal to continue , he said.  And I think the clean energy target does that.  In an , Finkel said the modelling of his plan suggested no new coal power plants would be built and that he would be surprised if any government endorsed a plan that incentivised them.																																																			