The Chinese premier, , has promised to step up his country s battle against deadly smog, telling an annual political congress:  We will make our skies blue again. China s cities have become synonymous with  in recent years, which is blamed for up to 1 million premature deaths a year. Speaking at the opening of the national people s congress in Beijing on Sunday, Li admitted his country was facing a grave environmental crisis that had left Chinese citizens desperately hoping for relief.Li unveiled a series of smog-busting measures including cutting coal use, upgrading coal-fired power plants, slashing vehicle emissions, encouraging the use of clean-energy cars and punishing government officials who ignore environmental crimes or air pollution.  Key sources  of industrial pollutants would be placed under 24-hour online monitoring in an effort to cut emissions. The premier vowed that levels of PM2.5 would fall  markedly  over the coming year but did not cite a specific target.  Tackling smog is down to every last one of us, and success depends on action and commitment. As long as the whole of our society keeps trying we will have more and more blue skies with each passing year,  he said. PM2.5 is a tiny airborne particulate that has been linked to lung cancer, asthma and heart disease. Despite his buoyant message, Li s language was more cautious than three years ago when he used the same opening speech to  and warn that smog was  nature s red light warning against inefficient and blind development .There has been public frustration   and    against Beijing s failure to achieve results in its quest to clean up the environment. Tens of thousands of  reportedly fled China s pollution-stricken north last December as a result of the country s latest pollution  red alert . Wei Song, a Chinese opera singer who attended Li s speech, said it was inhuman to  achieve development goals by sacrificing the environment  and called for tougher measures against polluters. The government should increase the penalties in order to bankrupt the people and the companies responsible. Otherwise, if the punishment is just a little scratch, they will carry on polluting,  said Wei, one of China s  three tenors .Zhang Bawu, a senior Communist party official from Ningxia province, defended China s  much improved  record on the environment. He claimed the number of smoggy days in Beijing was now falling thanks to government efforts and he said his province, which is building what could become , was also doing its bit.Ningxia s frontline role in a Chinese  meant 40% of its energy now came from renewable sources, Zhang said. 																																																			