The  government and the Katherine mayor have called for locals to be given the same blood testing and support provided to other communities impacted by Defence s firefighting foam contamination scandal.Drinking water in the town of Katherine, in the territory s top end, has been contaminated by the decades-long use of toxic firefighting foam at the nearby Tindal air force base.The same firefighting chemicals   known as per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (Pfas)   have contaminated Defence bases, fire stations and airports across the country. Early investigations by Defence last year showed groundwater near the base was  the safe threshold for drinking water. The government maintains the drinking water itself, however, remains safe. On Wednesday, the federal and territory governments announced they would impose  to limit the use of contaminated water.A new water-treatment facility will also be purchased by Defence to treat contaminated bore water, which combines with river water to create the town s drinking supply. Despite the measures, the federal government is still  of local residents, or include them in a broader epidemiological study and $54m assistance package offered to other affected areas. It s at odds with the government-funded blood testing provided in two of the worst-hit areas: Williamtown in NSW and Oakey in Queensland. The NT health minister, Natasha Fyles, has repeatedly called for the same measures to be afforded to residents of the top end. She told Guardian Australia the federal government had so far resisted those calls, instead delaying action until a more detailed investigation of the Katherine site can take place. That investigation is likely to take until March next year.  We feel that our community should be on an equal footing to those in other parts of Australia,  Fyles said.  We d like to see the same services provided around Australia, provided in Katherine. We think that s important,  she said.The water treatment facility will only be able to treat one megalitre of water a day when it becomes operational later this year. That is a small proportion of the water used in Katherine, particularly during the peak of the dry season.The Katherine mayor, Fay Miller, has warned the water treatment facility, while diluting the Pfas chemicals to some degree, would not be enough.  It will certainly reduce it, there s no doubt about that, but it s not going to be able to deal with the 10 megalitres a day,  she told Guardian Australia. Miller, who has lived in the town for almost 30 years, said she d like to see blood testing for those who wanted it.  Why not give them that peace of mind, and why not allow it?  she said.  If people would like to have the Pfas testing done, I don t think there is any reason for them not to have it done. But Miller warned blood testing, other than giving peace of mind, would not help address the problem. She urged calm and said the community had become worried due to  media hype . People need to be calm, need to be measured and calm. I know that we re all doing what we can,  she said.The Australian government was warned directly about its use of Pfas as early as 2000, when the United States environmental protection agency wrote to senior government officials. The letter, obtained by Guardian Australia, warns of possible links to adverse human health impacts. Defence and Australia s airports took years to begin phasing out their use of the firefighting foam, and took even longer to begin investigations for possible contamination. State-based environmental protection agencies, responsible for policing chemical use by firefighting services, took almost a decade to act. The defence minister has been contacted for a response. 																																																			