That was  when  revealed that while it was at the forefront of climate science research in the 1970s and 1980s, Harvard scientists  and  decided to take up Exxon s challenge, and have  in the journal Environmental Research Letters. They used a method known as  to analyze 187 public and internal Exxon documents. The results are striking:As Oreskes documented with Erik Conway in , tobacco companies and several other industries that profited from harmful products engaged in decades-long campaigns to sow doubt about the scientific evidence of their hazards. As one R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company  read:The results of this new paper show that Exxon followed this same playbook. While the company s internal communications and peer-reviewed research were clear about human-caused global warming, its public communications focused heavily on sowing doubt about those scientific conclusions.For example, Exxon scientist Brian Flannery co-authored a chapter of a  with NYU professor Martin Hoffert concluding that in a  Low CO2  emissions scenario, humans would cause about 2 C global surface warming above pre-industrial levels by 2100, and about 5 C in a  High CO2  scenario. These projections were in close agreement with  nearly 30 years later.Yet in  in the New York Times opposing , Exxon argued:The advertorial included a misleading graph showing that human activities only account for 3 4% of global carbon dioxide emissions   misleading because the . Earth naturally releases a lot of carbon, but absorbs just as much. Human emissions disrupt that balance and hence are responsible for the entire increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide levels:In  to raise doubts about a National Research Council climate report, Exxon talked about:That advertorial included  often used by climate deniers because it gives the appearance that current temperatures are lower than they have been over most of the past millennium. The chart is misleading for two reasons:  is one isolated geographic area that doesn t accurately represent the entire planet, and the data shown on the graph ends roughly a century ago, excluding most human-caused global warming.Crucially, Exxon s own climate science research answered these questions 10 20 years before the company published the misleading advertorials. The scientific evidence clearly indicated that by burning fossil fuels like those sold by Exxon, humans were increasing carbon dioxide levels, which were causing global warming, and that this would continue until we stop adding more carbon pollution to the atmosphere.These were the conclusions of 80% of Exxon s peer-reviewed research and internal communications, and yet 80% of its advertorials aimed at the public were filled with expressions of doubt and misleading statements and charts that would make today s climate deniers proud. Doubt was their product, and .This study comes as ExxonMobil already faces numerous investigations by state attorneys general and class action lawsuits. One lawsuit  and inflating its stock value by making false statements about the value of its oil reserves (much of which ), and about how climate policies will impact the company s finances.The  for potentially violating the territory s anti-racketeering law.  whether Exxon lied to the public and its shareholders about the risks of climate change and the potential effects on the company s finances. Massachusetts attorney general Maura Healey is  to determine whether Exxon deceived the public and investors about climate change risks.By showing that Exxon systematically misled the public by following the tobacco industry playbook, the new Harvard study will undoubtedly bolster these cases.In its defense, Exxon spokespeople have asserted that the company didn t  or  its climate science research. While that s generally true, it s also true that Exxon s public statements painted a very different picture about our understanding of human-caused global warming than the company s scientific research and internal communications. The vast majority of those paid statements were aimed at manufacturing doubt, and often included the same misleading myths and charts that can be found on any run-of-the-mill climate denial blog.Exxon s scientists published some valuable climate research. Company officials discussed those findings internally. But in its public communications, Exxon officials decided to follow the tobacco industry playbook   claim that the science remains unsettled in order to undermine regulations and prevent a decline in public consumption of their dangerous products.The tobacco industry was eventually . Considering the findings of this new study, ExxonMobil may face a similar fate.																																																			