t s easy to feel powerless in the face of new coal mines and shrinking rainforests in distant countries, but we also know that being green starts at home. We do what we can, right? But what really helps, and what is a drop in a warming ocean? A , has crunched the numbers and the results are intriguing. Bottom line: every little recycled yoghurt pot helps, but the environmental impacts of our actions vary massively. Here s a cut-out-and-keep (and then, you know, recycle) guide to a greener you.Think before you fly long-haul. The study,  estimates the savings, in tonnes of CO2 a year, of various actions taken by one person. By avoiding just one transatlantic return flight, you could keep 1.6 tonnes of CO2 out of circulation. Sounds like a lot? Think of it this way: that s more than seven times the .Sure you do, but   surprise, surprise   cars aren t cheap for the environment, either. Living without one saves 2.4 tonnes of CO2 a year. That s the second biggest single thing you can do. Next is buying green energy (1.47 tonnes). Even ditching an electric car will save 1.15 tonnes, while replacing a typical car with a (secondhand) hybrid saves 0.52 tonnes, or twice the amount you ll save by hanging your clothes to dry (0.21 tonnes; save the same again by washing clothes in cold water).Make it rare   as in, ideally, never. Previous studies have detailed the environmental cost of agriculture (15% of all emissions), half of which are caused by livestock. Beef is by far the biggest offender,  and 11 times more water. Eating less meat can have a big impact. Eating none, the new study says, could cut 0.82 tonnes of emissions a year, or eight times the savings triggered by upgrading your lightbulbs (0.1 tonnes). So do that, too.Here s the big one, the massive elephant in the travel cot. By far the single biggest thing you can do to help save the planet is to spare it your car-driving, steak-munching, jetsetting progeny. I mean, don t feel guilty if you re up the duff, but consider this: having one fewer child saves 58.6 tonnes of CO2 a year, or almost seven times the emissions you ll save by doing all of the above. And just think how many chickpeas and train tickets you ll be able to afford with the financial savings, too.																																																			