t the end of June some exotic migrants flew into the country . Following a hazardous journey from southern Europe .But while their presence is an inspiring example of the benefits of free movement, their choice of a quarry owned by Mexican minerals multinational  raises some difficult questions about the relationship conservation has with big business.Bee-eaters are one of our most beautiful birds and over the coming months thousands of birders are expected to flock to see them. Rare visitors to the UK, they are usually found nesting in sand banks along the Mediterranean and North Africa. If   as seems likely   they do colonise this country, it will be the most stark evidence yet of the northerly migration of bird populations due to climate change. Like other migrants, people have been quick to exploit the bee-eaters. The RSPB have set up special viewing facilities with Cemex charging ?5 for people to see them, half of which goes to the landowner. This has already led to accusations of them . When it comes to doing financial deals, both organisations are keen to develop their relationships with Cemex, who have assets in excess of ?26bn. , employing a dedicated adviser, while Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust has been working with the company for 25 years. Yet globally Cemex . The practice of sand mining by other companies now directly threatens important wildlife habitats in Northern Ireland and Dover, endangering birds, seals and other marine life.Andy Spencer, director of sustainability at Cemex, said:  The arrival of the rare and exotic bee-eaters at East Leake quarry has created a lot of interest amongst not only bird watchers but nature lovers everywhere. The quarry offers the birds the perfect home, in a dedicated sand pile, well away from the operational part of the quarry. We are working in partnership with the RSPB to ensure the safety of the birds and any visitors. Immigration, whether human or avian, is rarely without controversy. After Brexit, politicians are seeking new global partners to boost Britain s finances. Following their bee-eater boon, the RSPB and Nottinghamshire  Trust would do well to do the same.																																																			