t takes a very special person to label the photographed, documented, filmed and studied phenomenon of mass coral bleaching on the   fake news .You need lashings of chutzpah, blinkers the size of Donald Trump s hairspray bill and more hubris than you can shake a branch of dead coral at. It also helps if you can hide inside the bubble of the hyper-partisan  media outlet, whose former boss is the US president s chief strategist.So our special person is the British journalist  who, when he s not denying the impacts of coral bleaching, is denying the science of human-caused climate change, which he says is  .Delingpole was offended this week by an editorial in the  that read:  Humans are killing the Great Barrier Reef, one of the world s greatest natural wonders, and there s nothing Australians on their own can do about it. We are all responsible.  : Now before we go on, let s deal with some language here. When we talk about the reef dying, what we are talking about are the corals that form the reef s structure   the things that when in a good state of health can be splendorous enough to support about 69,000 jobs in  and add about $6bn to Australia s economy every year.The Great Barrier Reef has suffered mass coral bleaching three times   in 1998, 2002 and 2016   with a fourth episode now unfolding. The cause is increasing ocean temperatures. Is the Great Barrier Reef dying due to climate change caused by man s selfishness and greed?  asks Delingpole, before giving a long list of people and groups who he thinks will answer yes, including  the Guardian  and  any marine biologist . Have they been out there personally   as I have   to check. No of course not,  says Delingpole.Yes. James Delingpole has been out there  personally  to check, but all those other people haven t. He doesn t say when he went but he has . It was back in late April 2012. Everything , he said, based on that one visit. I can t find any times when he has mentioned another trip since. So here s the rhetorical question   one that I can barely believe I m asking, even rhetorically.Why should there not be equivalence between Delingpole s single trip to the reef (apparently taken 10 years after a previous severe case of bleaching and four years before the one that followed) at one spot on a reef system that spans the size of Italy [takes breath] and the  traversing the entire length of the reef?I mean, come on? Why can those two things   Delingpole making a boat trip with mates and a coordinated and exhaustive scientific monitoring and data-gathering exercise   not be the same? So it seems we are now at a stage where absolutely nothing is real unless you have seen it for yourself, so you can dismiss all of the photographs and video footage of bleached and dead coral, the testimony of countless marine biologists (who, we apparently also have to point out, have been to the reef ) and the observations made by the government agency that manages the reef.Senator Pauline Hanson and her One Nation climate science-denying colleagues  by taking a dive on a part of the reef that had escaped bleaching and then claiming this as proof that everything was OK everywhere else.This is like trying to disprove to a doctor that you have two broken legs by showing him an MRI scan of your head (which may or not reveal the presence of a brain), and then being annoyed when he doesn t accept your evidence.It s as though we ve reached peak denial.Last year s bleaching on the reef was the worst episode recorded to date. The current fourth mass bleaching has scientists again taking to the field.This month a study , and co-authored by 46 scientists, found these three episodes had impacted reefs  across almost the entire Great Barrier Reef marine park . Only southern offshore reefs had escaped.Corals bleach when they are exposed to abnormally high ocean temperatures for too long. Under stress, the corals expel the algae that give them their colour and more of their nutrients. Corals can recover but, as the study explains, even the fastest growing and most vigorous colonisers in the coral family need between 10 and 15 years to recover.After the 2016 bleaching, a quarter of all corals on the reef, mostly located in the once  pristine  northern section, died before there was a chance for recovery.In a further blow, the study looked at factors such as improving water quality or reducing fishing pressure and asked if these had helped corals to resist bleaching. In each case, they found they did not (although they do give reefs that survive a better chance to recover).Essentially, the study found the only measure that would give corals on the reef a fighting chance was to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.The lead author of the study, Prof Terry Hughes of James Cook University (who is this week carrying out aerial surveys of the current bleaching episode), told my  podcast:Some commentators have suggested a key cause of the 2016 bleaching was the El Ni?o weather pattern that tends to deliver warmer global temperatures.But Hughes says that before 1998, the Great Barrier Reef went through countless El Ni?os without suffering the extensive mass bleaching episodes that are being seen, photographed, filmed and documented now.Dr Mark Eakin, head of  Reef Watch at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said the cause of the modern-day mass bleaching episodes on reefs across the world was the rise in ocean temperatures.This, says Eakin, is  being driven largely by humans and our burning of fossil fuels .Government ministers at federal and state levels, of both political stripes, claim they want to protect the reef.They are running this protection racket, somehow, by continuing to support plans for .That s some more hubris right there.																																																			