Several times each week I take vegetable peelings from the kitchen to the three compost recycling bins at the bottom of the garden. Even in winter, they are hotbeds of biodiversity.Today, as I lift the lid of the newest bin, I am greeted by a blizzard of minute  () that have bred in the film of water covering decaying garden weeds and autumn leaves. Despite their putrid surroundings, these are beautiful insects, with silky wings clothed in fine white hairs, like a glamorous ermine coat. This sudden flood of winter sunshine is their first experience of daylight. They wander around the rim of their bin, disoriented, testing their wings. A sudden shower of carrot and potato peelings, broccoli stems and banana skins sends some into the air, to be whisked away by the chill spring wind; the rest are condemned to a few more days in dank darkness.The middle bin is full. Lifting the lid reveals a layer of exquisite glassy fungal threads, each topped with a sporangium resembling a polished bead of jet: it s pin , . There is a sweet smell of fungal decay and rotting orange peel, with the merest hint of alcoholic fermentation.Scores of tiger-striped brandling worms () are crawling over the surface, driven to the upper layers today by the sun-warmed bin and the heat of composting at its core.There are also five species of slug. Confined to recycling work, they are allies in the garden. I might not feel so benevolent when spring comes and their attention turns to seedlings.Opening the final bin, now in the last stages of decomposition and quite dry, reveals legions of armoured woodlice. A centipede scuttles away, its flat, articulated, body weaving through the narrowest gaps, a needle-jawed predator in this constantly changing pyramid of life.The compost that crumbles between my fingers has the consistency of coarse peat, ready to dig into the garden. Thirty years of recycling by a workforce of fungi, bacteria and millions of invertebrate herbivores, has turned this sandy plot into fertile, moisture-retentive, soil that provides fruit and vegetables for two-thirds of the year.																																																			