Sadiq Khan has accused Volkswagen of showing  utter contempt  for Londoners after it refused to pay ?2.5m compensation for its role in the . The German car manufacturer has paid  after admitting around 11m cars worldwide were fitted with  defeat devices  that switched the engine to a cleaner mode to improve results in tests.The mayor of London  imploring it to  fully compensate  the capital s residents who were affected by the emissions scandal and reimburse Transport for London for ?2.5m he claims it lost in congestion charge revenue because of the  defeat devices. However, it has emerged that at a meeting with VW earlier this month the car giant s UK managing director Paul Willis made it  abundantly clear  it would not be meeting Khan s compensation claims.  I am disappointed by the utter contempt VW has shown for Londoners,  said Khan.  Their appalling lack of action since the  dieselgate  scandal came to light must not be allowed to continue. He said the thousands of Londoners who had bought VW cars in good faith, had unwittingly contributed to London s air pollution crisis which is estimated to kill 9,000 people every year. He called on VW to offer drivers a buyback scheme and said the ?2.5m compensation would be used to introduce a  schools air quality programme  to . Unfortunately VW made it abundantly clear that they have no interest or intention of reimbursing Londoners or indeed any UK customers who bought these polluting vehicles. They are also in denial over their responsibility to help clean up London s filthy air and mitigate the damage their cars have caused. In the US VW is paying  to drivers and Khan said its refusal to offer something similar in the UK was unacceptable. It is now nearly two years since the  dieselgate  scandal and the government must stop dragging their feet and urgently intervene. VW is making a laughing stock of the UK   the government needs to demand a compensation package that equals the billions VW gave customers in America. It is estimated that more than 9,000 deaths occur each year in London due to illnesses caused by long-term exposure to air pollution. A .A spokesperson for VW said all of its vehicles which benefitted from the congestion charge greener vehicle discount  did so validly throughout the relevant period .It added there is  no basis on which it can be said that Transport for  has lost any sums as a result of the NOx issue. No sums are therefore due in compensation,  the spokesperson said.However, the mayor s office dismissed the suggestion that all VW vehicles met the green threshold legitimately. Khan called on the government and other regulatory authorities to intervene.  I am determined to stand up for those Londoners forced to breathe filthy air and who have been wholly misled by VW. 																																																			