ropaganda works by sanctifying a single value, such as faith, or patriotism. Anyone who questions it puts themselves outside the circle of respectable opinion. The sacred value is used to obscure the intentions of those who champion it. Today, the value is freedom. Freedom is?a word that powerful people use to shut down thought.When thinktanks and the billionaire press call for freedom, they are careful not to specify whose freedoms they mean. Freedom for some, they suggest, means freedom for all. In certain cases, this is true. You can exercise freedom of thought, for instance, without harming others. In other cases, one person s freedom is another s captivity.When corporations free themselves from trade unions, they curtail the freedoms of their workers. When the very rich free themselves from tax, other people suffer through failing public services. When financiers are free to design exotic?financial instruments, the rest of us pay for the crises they cause.Above all, billionaires and the organisations they run demand freedom from something they call  red tape . What they mean by red tape is public protection.  was headlined  Cut the EU red tape choking Britain after Brexit to set the country free from the shackles of Brussels . Yes, we are choking, but not on red tape. We are choking because the government on air quality. The resulting air pollution frees thousands of souls from their bodies.Ripping down such public protections means freedom for billionaires and corporations from the constraints of democracy. This is what    and Donald Trump   are all about. The freedom we were promised is the freedom of the very rich to exploit us.To be fair to the Telegraph, which is running a campaign to deregulate the entire economy once Britain has left the EU, it is, unusually, almost explicit about who the beneficiaries are. It explains that  the ultimate goal of this whole process should be to    . (Wealth creators: code for the very rich.) Among the  are changes to the banana grading system, allowing strongly curved bananas to be categorised as Class 1, a return to incandescent lightbulbs and the freedom to kill great crested newts.I suspect that the , the billionaires who own the Telegraph, couldn t give a monkey s about bananas. But as their business empire incorporates hotels, shipping, car sales, home shopping and deliveries, they might be intensely interested in the European working time directive and other aspects of employment law, tax directives, environmental impact assessments, the consumer rights directive, maritime safety laws and a host of similar public protections.If the government agrees to a  bonfire of red tape , we would win bent bananas and newt-squashing prerogatives. On the other hand, we could lose our rights to fair employment, an enduring living world, clean air, clean water, public safety, consumer protection, functioning public services, and the other distinguishing features of civilisation. Tough choice, isn t it?As if to hammer the point home, , chief executive of Merlin Entertainments, in an article claiming that the  red tape burden  was too heavy for listed companies. He?described some of the public protections that companies have to observe as  bloody baggage . The article failed to connect these remarks to his company s own bloody baggage, caused?by . As a result of overriding the safety mechanism on one of its rides at Alton Towers   which was operating, against the guidelines, during high winds   16 people were injured, including?two young women who had their legs amputated. That s why we need public protections of the kind the Telegraph wants to destroy.The same ethos, with the same justification, pervades the Trump administration. The new head of the environmental protection agency, Scott Pruitt, is  protecting rivers from pollution, workers from exposure to pesticides, and everyone from climate breakdown. It s not as if the agency was overzealous before: one of the reasons for the mass poisoning in Flint, Michigan, was  to protect people from the contamination of drinking water by lead: a failure that now afflicts?18 million Americans.As well as trying to dismantle the government s climate change programme, Trump is waging war on even the most obscure forms of protection. For instance, he ,?which investigates lethal industrial incidents. Discovering what happened and why would impede freedom.On neither side of the Atlantic are these efforts unopposed. Trump s assault on public protections has already provoked . The European council  that if it wants to trade with the EU on favourable terms after Brexit, companies here cannot cut their costs by dumping them on the rest of society.This drives the leading Brexiters berserk. As a result of the  (the dirtiest corporations have to spend the most money on politics, so?the political system comes to be owned by them), politicians like Boris Johnson and Michael Gove have an incentive to champion the freedom of irresponsible companies. But it also puts them in a bind. Their primary argument for deregulation is that it makes businesses more competitive. If it means those businesses can t trade with the EU, the case falls apart.They will try to light the bonfire anyway, as this is a question of power and culture as well as money. You don t need to listen for long to the very rich to realise that many see themselves as the  independents  Friedrich Hayek , or as John Galt, who led a millionaires  strike against the government in . Like Hayek, they regard freedom from democracy as an absolute right, regardless of the costs this may inflict on others, or even themselves.When we confront a system of propaganda, our first task is to decode it. This begins by interrogating its sacred value. Whenever we hear the word freedom, we should ask ourselves,  Freedom for whom, at whose expense? Twitter: @GeorgeMonbiot. A fully linked version of this column will be published at 																																																			