Resembling armour-plated Clangers and sometimes growing as big as pigs, giant armadillos are among the most singular creatures on Earth. They re incredibly elusive and, until recently, we knew little about their lives. But Brazil s Giant Armadillo Project has changed all that. This fascinating film, narrated by David Attenborough, lifts the lid on these burrowing beasts and their centrality to their ecosystem. Evelyn s Waugh picaresque farce continues, as the hapless Paul Pennyfeather (a nicely cast Jack Whitehall) is hired to tutor the son of wealthy socialite widow Margot Beste-Chetwynde (the divine Eva Longoria). Before long, his heart has melted all over her embroidered frock   but there s a love rival in the shape of preposterous German architect Otto ( I love her body as much as concrete ). And is Margot s international cabaret business all it seems? Tonight s episode screeches up with the mowing down of a young model   she spends the opening scene running in flimsy lingerie before meeting a grisly end. The investigation leads straight-guy Murtaugh (Damon Wayans) and wildcard Riggs (Clayne Crawford) to the sort of Bel Air mansion where women jiggle in bikinis, then on to a 50 Shades-style orgy. Will the endearing double act solve the crime? They re having all sorts of fun along the way. Like Coogan and Brydon s Spanish trip minus the mimicry, Alex Polizzi offers her own impressions of Valencia. Perhaps best known for oranges, football and beaches, Valencia is also home to the Spanish staple paella, with Alex given a masterclass in making a true Valencian paella before visiting the holy grail of religious artefacts   the, er, actual Holy Grail. Then a visit to Costa Blanca, where expat life seems uncannily like all the adverts on ITV3. After a tiny rest stop, a new series of well-rehearsed and lightly promotional chat begins. Jack Whitehall, very much the gift that keeps on giving on the red sofa, returns yet again   this time to discuss his current, and slightly underwhelming, starring role in BBC1 s Decline and Fall. Operating at about the same level of old pro is the duo of Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman, here to plug pensioner heist movie Going in Style. The houseshare sitcom gets an extraterrestrial upgrade in this new animated series. Three aliens move into Jeff s shoddy bungalow to observe humanity, having verified that he is the most average man on Earth. This premise is all explained in the theme song, leaving Jeff to stumble through a series of puerile intergalactic mishaps, mostly involving bodily fluids. So far, not a patch on the reprobate sci-fi of Rick and Morty. The Euro-noir police procedural ends with the multinational team closing in on Loukauskis. He s a diminished figure, holed up in a Belgian basement and increasingly unable to control those around him   a relief considering that we finally see his trafficking business up close. This finale neatly ties up various plot strands, notably when it comes to its cops  personal dilemmas, but ultimately it s a series that s a little less than the sum of its stylish parts.  (Judd Apatow, 2007), 9pm, ITV2Ambitious young TV presenter Katherine Heigl and paunchy slacker Seth Rogen look as if they ll never be viable as a couple, but when she gets pregnant after a drunken night out, they decide to give it a go. And the surprising thing is, we really start to care about them and their baby in Apatow s charming, intelligent, smutty but oh-so-funny odd-couple comedy.  France v Great Britain, 1pm, BBC2. The opening day of the quarter-final of the men s competition. Sale Sharks v Worcester Warriors, 7pm, BT Sport 1. Egg-chasing action from the AJ Bell stadium.The Masters, 7pm, Sky Sports 1. The players battle to make the cut on the second day of the major at Augusta.																																																			