reathing is given remarkably little air time. But a  worldwide emerged from the World Health Organisation recently, linking 3 million deaths a year to air pollution.It s enough to keep you indoors. Unfortunately there s declining air quality inside, too, particularly from concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). This chemical class includes formaldehyde and toluene and leads to so called  sick building syndrome . Symptoms include dizziness, asthma and allergies.Dr Vadoud Niri, a US chemist and campaigner for eliminating VOCs, has one prescription: potted plants. He particularly wants them installed in nail salons, where you can smell the VOCs in the air.His research showed the everyday house plant to be pretty effective at eliminating VOCs from the air, particularly the 1970s macram  basket stalwart   the spider plant.This is not the first research into the purifying powers of the humble house plant. In the 1980s, as my , Nasa researched 19 plants and discovered that you need a variety, as different species are good with different pollutants   Costa Farms  guide, , has a handy list   and one healthy plant for every 100 square feet of living space is a good idea, too.It s not all good news: no plant removes tobacco smoke, and research results are from laboratories rather than typical homes. To get strong results according to the Nasa research, you need to focus on the soil, and possibly use a charcoal filter, too.But plants do help, especially if we keep them for a long time. Research tells us that older plants in the same soil become more efficient at processing specific pollutants   so hang on to them.Remembrance Day for Lost Species on 30 November is a chance to mourn extinct and disappearing species, and to avow your commitment to preserving those that remain. Originated by a Sussex theatre group, the day is now driven by artists, scientists and curators and often takes the form of elegiac memorials (such as this one to passenger pigeons on a Welsh beach by Emily Laurens). For details, visit lostspeciesday.orgArtist Ian Berry has long inhabited a world of indigo. It began with him noting all the shades of different jeans he had piled up at his parents  home, and coming up with a strategy to avoid throwing them away. His answer? To cut them up and make a portrait of Blondie. Now he has become so well known for his photo-realistic pictures in denim that people leave bags of their old jeans outside his house. He is both thankful and astounded by our consumption levels.  It may be a universal, democratic fabric, but our throw-away culture is harming the world and many of the production methods concern me,  says Berry. To him denim is precious, despite the glut of cast-offs he now has access to. You can see his new work at Gallery Different in London from 16 November ().																																																			