Yesterday, New York Times subscribers were treated to an email alert announcing the first opinion column from Bret Stephens, who they hired away from the Wall Street Journal. Like all Journal opinion columnists who write about climate change, Stephens has said a lot of things on the subject . Thus many Times subscribers voiced bewilderment and concern about his hiring, to which . Justifying the critics, here s how the paper announced Stephens  first opinion column in an email alert (usually reserved for important breaking news):In , Stephens pooh-poohed climate change as a  modest (0.85 degrees Celsius) warming of the Northern Hemisphere since 1880,  citing . However, Stephens packed three big mistakes into that single sentence. Here s what the IPCC said (emphasis added):The northern hemisphere warms faster than the global average because it has more land and less ocean than the southern hemisphere (water warms slowly), so this is an important mistake that underestimates the global temperature rise. On top of that, since 2012 we ve seen the three hottest years on record (2014, 2015, and 2016), so even the 0.85 C warming figure is outdated (). Most importantly, the global warming we ve experience is in no way  modest.  We re already causing a rate of warming , and within a few decades we could be causing . The last ice age transition saw about 4 C global warming over 10,000 years; humans are on pace to cause that much warming between 1900 and 2100   a period of just 200 years, with most of that warming happening since 1975.Of course, how much global warming we see in the coming decades depends on how much carbon pollution we dump into the atmosphere. If we take serious immediate action to cut those emissions, as the international community pledged to do under , we can limit global warming to perhaps 2 C, and the climate consequences that come along with it.But this is where Stephens  opinions are particularly unhelpful:In other words, the people obstructing climate policies are justified because climate  advocates  are too mean to them, and claim too much certainty about the future.This is of course nonsense. There is uncertainty about how much global warming and climate change we ll see in the coming decades (climate scientists are crystal clear about this), but the biggest factor contributing to that uncertainty is human behavior   how much carbon pollution we end up dumping into the atmosphere. This is apparent from looking at the IPCC global temperature projections:In the red  burn lots of fossil fuels  (RCP8.5) scenario, we ll see a further 3.0 5.5 C warming between now and 2100. In the blue  take immediate serious climate action  (RCP2.6) scenario, we ll see a further 0.5 1.5 C global warming by 2100. Those ranges represent uncertainties in the climate modeling, but the difference between them   which is based on how much carbon pollution we release   is bigger than the uncertainty in each scenario.. Each time we smoke, we increase the odds of developing cancer a little bit more. The future outcome is uncertain   we don t know exactly if or when the disaster of cancer will hit   but we know we re making it more likely every time we smoke, and the smart move is to mitigate that risk by cutting down on the cigarettes as quickly as possible. With climate change, each time we add more carbon pollution to the atmosphere, we increase the odds of a climate catastrophe a little bit more. The smart move is to mitigate that risk by cutting down on our burning of fossil fuels as quickly as possible. Stephens  piece is akin to criticizing doctors and anti-smoking groups for being too mean to the tobacco industry, and for not focusing on the uncertainty about exactly when the chain-smoking patient will develop cancer.So far, . The Paris climate agreement was a major step to remedy that failure, but now the Trump administration is debating whether to withdraw from it, or simply refuse to honor America s pledges. There have been  to the problem, but each has been blocked by the Republican Party at the behest of its fossil fuel donors.  small government, revenue-neutral solutions , but while some , Republicans in Congress have refused to even vote on it.In short, on climate science and policy it s clear where the problem lies, and it s not with the advocates. Not only does Stephens get basic facts wrong and gloss over the tremendous risks posed by climate change, but he blames partisan policy obstruction on the people who are desperately trying every possible avenue to solve the problem. The New York Times is publishing and promoting  , and its readers are rightly appalled. A number of climate realists and scientists have  in response. It s a difficult choice because New York Times journalists do a lot of good reporting, including on climate change.  is practically a national treasure. In fact  about the hire and Stephens  first opinion piece. At the same time, it s difficult to stomach paying for a paper that uses that money to hire and promote views as uninformed and harmful as Bret Stephens , on a subject as critically important as climate change. Personally, I had hoped that Stephens would simply avoid the subject, but his first piece dashed those hopes much in the way that our hopes for sensible American climate policy have been dashed time and time again by those who he defends.																																																			