ou never see  air pollution  written as the cause on death certificates,  an expert once told me. If it was, she suggested, the enormous toll toxic air takes on the health of billions of the world s people would prompt a global emergency response.But the winds of change are now blasting the air pollution crisis to greater prominence   driven by new data, revelations about the impact of poisonous air on virtually all aspects of health and, crucially, the increasing anger of affected people and communities.There is no doubt that air pollution is a global crisis: it . That is double the number of people lost to HIV/Aids, tuberculosis and malaria combined, and four times the number killed on the world s roads. In Africa, air pollution kills . Half the early deaths result from indoor cooking with smoky fuels, a problem linked closely to poverty and readily solved, if the will and means exist. But the other half results from outdoor air pollution   caused by traffic, power stations, factories, construction, heating and more   and is far more dispersed and harder to tackle. It is also , as the world s population swells towards 9 billion and cities rapidly grow. Particulate pollution is the scourge of India, home to a host of terribly polluted cities, and many parts of the developing world where urbanisation is most rapid. But developed nations face air pollution problems too. In Europe, the  have left diesel vehicles belching out many times more nitrogen dioxide than was ever thought safe. In the UK alone, illegal levels of NO2 cause more than 60 premature deaths a day. Toxic air is a major cause of heart attacks, strokes and lung diseases   the causes that are put in death certificates. But researchers are finding ever more varied and worrying impacts of breathing noxious air.Air pollution has now been linked to increased ,  and , and toxic nanoparticles have been recently , suggesting a link to degenerative brain diseases . It is even thought to be , by accelerating wrinkles and age spots.But perhaps the most worrying impacts are on children, whose lung development is stunted and whose . Unicef found recently that    six times higher than international guidelines   and that almost 90% of the world s children live in places where outdoor air pollution exceeds World Health Organization limits.Amid this gloom, there are glimmers of hope. China, for many years home to the worst air pollution hotspots in the world, has seen remarkable improvements in many places. Its drive to clear the air has been propelled by both the public s concern for their health and fears about climate change. Increasing efforts to fight global warming by cutting fossil fuel burning will help cut air pollution, not least because the . Some major world cities are also tackling direct action against their traffic smog, by setting dates by which the . The huge cuts in health costs that could be won with cleaner air are also becoming better understood.The battle against air pollution has finally begun, and it is on the streets of the world s burgeoning cities that it will be won, or lost.																																																			