ore than a millennium has passed since the  roamed Britain, and now the    a community interest company formed in 2014 by conservationists and scientists   wants to reintroduce them into . The trust s plans have received opposition from the , which says:  The consultation process adopted by Lynx UK Trust appears flawed and misleading. Steve Piper from the trust doesn t think the cats will threaten sheep:  It doesn t matter that sheep are slower than a deer or an  easy meal , in every real-world example, lynx show virtually no interest in killing sheep. There may be more good news for farmers as Piper says lynx have more of an appetite for foxes, which Piper believes will reduce fox-on-sheep predation. And he says we have nothing to worry about either, as  no attacks on humans by wild Eurasian lynx have been found recorded anywhere in recorded history . is not convinced:  In the time since lynx last appeared in this country, the habitat around us has changed dramatically, our population has increased drastically and, on top of this, we do not know how lynx would behave in the current environment. In the main, however, rewilding has had mostly positive results. Here are other species that have had similar trial runs. were reintroduced in England and Scotland from 1986. There have been reports that they have been taking food out of the mouths of kestrels and barn owls. But Dee Doody, a field worker at the Welsh Kite Trust, told the  that red kites  might perhaps take a pigeon off a roof, but their increased numbers are not a threat to other birds . were reintroduced by the Scottish Wildlife Trust into Knapdale Forest in the Heart of Argyll in 2009 amid concerns they could cause flooding and disrupt fish migration due to the dams beavers build. Simon Jones, project manager of the , said it had been an  outstanding success .The last large blue butterfly colony lived on Dartmoor in Devon until declared extinct in 1979. Since being reintroduced in 1984, there is a population of more than 10,000 living on reserves in Gloucestershire and Somerset. Roger Mortlock, chief executive of the local Wildlife Trust, told the  that this is  fantastic news for this globally endangered butterfly whose extraordinary life cycle makes its conservation very challenging . became nationally extinct when the last bird was shot in 1832. This handsome creature returned to the UK in 2004 when the Great Bustard Group initiated a 10-year trial reintroduction on to Salisbury Plain. Experts say that their populations will soon be . This article was amended on 24 July 2017. Due to an editing error an earlier version said more than a millennia had passed since the lynx roamed Britain. This has been corrected to say more than a millennium.																																																			