Older, more polluting cars will have to pay a ?10 charge to drive in central  from 23 October, the city s mayor has said.Confirming he would press ahead with the fee, known as the T-charge,  said:  It s staggering that we live in a city where the air is so toxic that many of our children are growing up with lung problems. If we don t make drastic changes now we won t be protecting the health of our families in the future. That is why today, on the 14th anniversary of the start of the congestion charge, I ve confirmed we are pressing ahead with the toughest emission standard of any major city, coming to our streets from 23 October. The announcement came after fresh warnings this week about the poor quality of London s air.The mayor spoke as he launched an online vehicle checker on the  for London website so drivers can check whether their vehicle will be affected by the T-charge, whose introduction coincides with the start of the autumn half-term.The levy is expected to affect up to 10,000 of the oldest, most polluting vehicles every week day, as it will apply to motorists who own vehicles that do not meet Euro 4 standards   typically those diesel and petrol vehicles registered before 2006.It will operate on top of, and during the same times, as the congestion charge, meaning it will cost ?21.50 a day to drive a pre-Euro 4 vehicle in centre London between 7am and 6pm Monday to Friday.London joins a growing number of cities around the world taking action against rising . In Paris,  between 8am-8pm on weekdays.Khan launched a consultation on the T-charge proposals last July at Great Ormond Street hospital for children, whose chief executive, Dr Peter Steer, said at the time:  The mayor s drive to clean up the capital s air is fantastic news for our patients and staff. Children living in highly polluted areas are four times more likely to have reduced lung function in adulthood, yet improving air quality has been shown to halt and reverse this effect. Air pollution is believed to cause almost 40,000 premature deaths every year in the UK and was in April labelled a  by a cross-party committee of MPs. The government is facing a  over the adequacy of its plans to tackle the issue, having already  in 2015.Last year Khan published research that showed numerous . His plan to cut air pollution includes extending the ultra-low emission zone beyond central London to the North and South Circular roads from 2019. Drivers would not pay both the ULEZ and the new ?10 charge and the latter will not apply to taxis.Other suggestions for tackling the problem include a national diesel scrappage scheme, which the government would have to implement. Paying owners to scrap their their cars is  but other groups argue the  and cycling and walking.																																																			