Novo Nordisk built a research partnership with , the global mayor s partnership on climate, t. For example, city bikes and bike lines contribute to improving climate (lower particle pollution, lower CO2) and improved health (exercise). Our , emphasised that cities need more than bike share programmes, cycle paths and sidewalks to promote health. To ensure equity, we need to think about local urban design and regional planning to ensure accessibility to work by public transport, minimise parking and redistribute employment across regions. This requires integrated planning. In cities such as Bogot , Addis Ababa, Mumbai and S?o Paulo, 50% of traffic fatalities are among pedestrians, and another 20-30% are among cyclists. If we want to increase physical activity, we need to work on making biking and walking safe for all. The  has created a network of 10 cities in Africa, Latin America and Asia that are actively working on improving safety. Transport can be the cause of poor health through physical inactivity, air quality and noise, but it can also be the cure   through active travel and improving air quality. People who are physically active have a 20-35% reduced risk of coronary heart disease and stroke, a 40-45 % reduced risk of Alzheimer s and 35-50% reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. In 2015, Washington DC entered into a  (pdf). The PPA prevents the release of air pollutants such as soot, smog and mercury that are harmful to human health. Wind power procured under the PPA will supply roughly one-third of the district government s electricity from a 46MW wind farm. The district does not pay for the wind farm itself, but agrees to purchase 125,000 to 150,000 MWh of wind electricity every year at a fixed rate 30% lower than fossil fuel power.  works with local governments committed to reducing energy and carbon emissions attributed to buildings. The cities participating in the , which we co-lead with NRDC [Natural Resources Defense Council], are often motivated by energy and health benefits alike. Our private sector engagement is largely with the real estate community (building owners and managers, service companies and relevant NGOs). This collaborative approach ensures the programmes and policies are effective in reducing emissions, but are not overly burdensome for those who must comply. We need to find more holistic approaches to place-based healthcare. Two good examples of these new models of care in the UK are Northfield in Stoke-on-Trent where a range of housing options enable people to continue to live at home with supporting preventative services, a community hub, a doctors surgery and a specialist dementia home. Also in the UK is the  in south London. It s an integrated health centre, outpatient and diagnostics services and specialist rehabilitation care for elderly patients as well as a private sector extra care housing scheme of 50 flats. At the World Health Organisation we developed the  tool that enables communities and cities to collect a limited set of health, governance and socio-economic indicators; to analyse it, and to translate it easily for decision makers. Using evidence from the WHO s commission on social determinants of health, Urban HEART encourages policymakers to develop a holistic approach in tackling health equity. Officials in nearly 50 countries have been trained on using Urban HEART. Detroit is the first American city to use Urban HEART. The critical ingredient is educating departments about where and how health needs to involved, usually much earlier and more critically. Our core efforts centre around leveraging health to disrupt intergenerational poverty, focusing on those health outcomes that drive poverty among children. Detroit is the poorest city in the US with health outcomes that mirror that. Elected officials have to be on board and ensure they look good too. We ve tried to ensure that elected officials don t see us as competition or risky business, but as strengthening partners. In some cases you can overcome that mutual suspicion. In others you won t, and you ll have to be stubborn enough to prove the concept and work with those that support you. Having citizen approval and support is critical: we had a petition signed by more than 20,000 people asking for the project to succeed. 																																																			