nly a few years ago, they used to stage whimbrel walks at . In late summer, these birds, which look like , would stream from estuary to estuary in their thousands, on their way from breeding grounds on Orkney and Shetland to winter on the west African coast.Now, you re lucky to see a single one out on the salt marshes amid the wheeling terns and plover, and Rye Harbour has re-branded its walks. In folklore, this is a bird of bad omen; if you hear seven of them (the Seven Whistlers) pass over at night, death won t be far behind, but like the curlew,  () are dying out in Britain, and were put on the  in 2009, habitat loss being the primary cause.It s early evening, late July, and I m with Barry Yates, the reserve s manager, on the path that stretches along its southern edge. In winter, lorries rumble up and down here, ferrying shingle westwards in an attempt to stop the drift of stones closing over the mouth of the river Rother. Now, though, all is silent, just the wind passing through the glorious profusion of wildflowers that surround us: viper s bugloss, yellow horned poppies and the rare stinking hawksbeard. The sun begins to move down over the Fairlight cliffs and everything is dyed golden.Then we see them, arrowing in from the east. Six, then a dozen, curlews pass over, letting out what Ted Hughes called their  wobbling water call . Perhaps 20 of them settle down to roost amid the tussocky grass   and that s when I catch sight of it, off to one side, duskier and smaller than its curlew cousins. A single whimbrel with its melancholy down-curved bill, striking brown crown-stripes, standing apart as if there were something meaningful in its solitude. We wait to see if more birds land, but the light is fading, night winds whipping along the exposed lip of shore. I leave the whimbrel there, alone, imagining the island heathlands it has left behind, the Mauritanian ship-graveyards and mangrove-filled estuaries that are its destination. There is quite rightly a campaign to save our endangered curlews, but spare a thought also for the whimbrel   so similar, so sinister, so self-effacing it might disappear from our shores without anyone noticing at all.																																																			