nce it was a day of joy. The fifth of May. A day when even the greyest shades of early summer would be set ablaze by squadrons of yikkering, darting arrows, now screeching recklessly round the rooftops, now twinkling high over the city streets. The day of the sky dolphins.I don t think you ll find the description in many ornithology guidebooks or birding websites. But that s how that first intoxicating contact with the common swift was christened in my household. Though it took a child who had only just started school to make the connection. You see,  I remember explaining to my daughter all those years ago,  these birds have flown  to come and have their babies here. You d think they d be knackered. But look at them. They re dancing and laughing and leaping around. They re having a party. Not a care in the world. Like aerial joyriders. Day of the joyriders? No, the ebullience of these birds, their sheer sense of fun, their ability to set one s own spirit soaring with theirs, deserved something more celebratory. Lola came to the rescue.  They are like dolphins, Dad. Dolphins in the sky.  What a diamond.But perhaps the most extraordinary thing about the uninhibited antics of these birds was the clockwork discipline that underpinned it. Whether it was Peckham Rye or Hampstead Heath that we sought them, it was always on 5 May that they appeared in the skies over London, as they flooded northwards.And then the flood dried up. Suddenly, violently. My daughter is at university now; by my reckoning London has now suffered 10 swift-less summers. It s a similar story elsewhere in Britain (a decline in breeding pairs of almost 50% in the past two decades is the RSPB s estimate), and Europe. Yes, the odd flickering silhouette still shimmies through the vista, but the great screeching squadrons seem to have been shot out of the sky.Of course, like all animals that undertake great migrations, swifts are vulnerable to habitat loss driven by climate change and the environmental havoc wreaked by modern intensive agriculture. The aerial plankton of insects and spiders that sustain the birds on their long migrations is being thinned out by a whole range of widely used pesticides and insecticides.    associated with the decline of bees   are particularly worrying. Research suggests that these chemicals are responsible for the  that support many species of bird.Every year the relentless creep of the Sahara desert, driven by the mechanics of climate change, takes its toll. Even when the migrating swifts have crossed the Med, they find the same .But for me, there s another habitat loss, much closer to home, that has turned 5 May into a day of doom: the destruction of the nest sites that turned our towns and cities into prime real estate for swifts.They build their nests in little cracks under the eaves of old brick buildings: but increasingly these are seen as sources of , as a blight on property values, rather than a thrilling spectacle of wildness to be nurtured. Clearing out nests and sealing up eaves to shut out the returning birds is now a . As breeding swifts pair up for life   and often use the same nest year after year   there is an irrevocable violence in this process.It seems that this tiny bird   weighing about the same as a Creme Egg   can overcome the ordeals of climate change and the chemical warfare waged by farmers. But  are a bridge too far.More than 50 years ago,  woke us up to the annihilating power of insecticides such as DDT. Today, with the disappearance of swifts from the skies over our cities, could be the start of a silent summer.																																																			