n a bold new strategy unveiled on Monday in the Guardian, the US Department of Agriculture   guardians of the planet s richest farmlands   has .Under guidance from the agency s director of soil health, Bianca Moebius-Clune, a list of phrases to be avoided includes  climate change  and  climate change adaptation , to be replaced by  weather extremes  and  resilience to weather extremes .Also blacklisted is the scary locution  reduce greenhouse gases    and here, the agency s linguists have done an even better job of camouflage: the new and approved term is  increase nutrient use efficiency . The effectiveness of this approach   based on the well-known principle that what you can t say won t hurt you   has previously been tested at the state level, making use of the  policy laboratories  provided by America s federalist system. In 2012, for instance, the North Carolina general assembly voted to prevent communities from planning for sea level rise. Early analysis suggests this legislation has been ineffective: Hurricane Matthew, in 2016, for instance drove storm surge from the Atlantic ocean to historic levels along the Cape Fear river. Total damage from the storm was estimated at $4.8bn. Further south,  in 2014   one government official, answering questions before the legislature, repeatedly used the phrase  the issue you mentioned earlier  in a successful effort to avoid using the taboo words. It is true that the next year  unprecedented  coral bleaching blamed on rising temperatures destroyed vast swaths of the state s reefs: from Key Biscayne to Fort Lauderdale, a survey found that  about two-thirds were dead or reduced to less than half of their live tissue . Still, it s possible that they simply need to increase their nutrient use efficiency. At the federal level, the new policy has yet to show clear-cut success either. As the say-no-evil policy has rolled out in the early months of the Trump presidency, it coincided with the onset of a truly dramatic  flash drought  across much of the nation s wheat belt. As the Farm Journal website pointed out earlier last week:  Crops in the Dakotas and Montana are baking on an anvil of severe drought and extreme heat, as bone-dry conditions force growers and ranchers to make difficult decisions regarding cattle, corn and wheat.  In typically negative journalistic fashion, the Farm Journal reported that  abandoned acres, fields with zero emergence, stunted crops, anemic yields, wheat rolled into hay, and early herd culls comprise a tapestry of disaster for many producers . Which is why it s good news for the new strategy that the USDA has filled its vacant position of chief scientist with someone who knows the power of words. In fact, Sam Clovis, the new chief scientist, , or has degrees in science, but instead formerly served in the demanding task of rightwing radio host (where he pointed out that followers of former president Obama were  Maoists ). He has actually used the words  climate change  in the past, but only to dismiss it as  junk science .  Under his guidance the new policy should soon yield results, which is timely since recent research (carried out, it must be said, by scientist scientists at MIT) showed that  climate change could deplete some US water basins and dramatically reduce crop yields in some areas by 2050 . But probably not if we don t talk about it.																																																			