My friend John Abbott, who has died of cancer aged 63, was a talented mathematician and liberal-minded individual who improved the air that we breathe. John was the first (in 2005) to understand that nitrogen dioxide concentrations were not decreasing as expected. A decade later, this is now widely known and understood, with diesel cars being particularly high emitters, and has led to a revision of the vehicle emission standards in Europe.John was born and brought up in Bishop s Stortford, the son of Peter Abbott, a technical telecommunications officer with the Civil Aviation Authority, and his wife, Jean, a BT telephone operator with BT. He excelled at Newport grammar school, Essex, and graduated with a first in chemical engineering from Leeds University. He joined the Warren Spring Laboratory, Stevenage, which was then a government lab. There he developed improved methods for efficient bulk handling of materials, contributing to greater energy efficiency and the suppression of pollution.When the lab was privatised in 1994 into AEA Technology, later becoming Ricardo-AEA Ltd, he progressed from a government scientific officer to being principal consultant and project manager for air quality impact assessment.Thanks to John s work, key air pollution regulations were introduced that were enforceable by local authorities. He also developed analytical teaching and technical support for non-experts.John led a review of short-term air quality action plans for the European commission as part of its Year for Air in 2013, which saw a fundamental review of the air quality directive.? He also developed the science that formed guidance now used throughout the UK to assess the impact of biomass combustion on air quality. This is regularly used in assessments for planning applications.He was a quiet and humble man with disdain for the material world, but whose zest for life and sharp sense of humour cheered others along. His only ire, as a lifelong Guardian reader, was reserved for what he perceived as the incremental dismantling of support for the vulnerable in society.Outside work, he enjoyed climbing with friends throughout the UK and in the Pyrenees, and also sailing, dancing, travelling, pub quizzing, having a pint and music.He is survived by his mother, his brother, Nick, and his sister, Jane.																																																			