Media Matters for America has published , and the results are stunning:In all of 2016, these news programs spent a combined grand total of 50 minutes talking about climate change. More than half of that come from  Evening News, which nevertheless only spent half as much time talking about climate change in 2016 as it had in 2015.It s certainly not as though 2016 lacked newsworthy climate stories. We learned in January that , previously set just a year earlier. And 2016 just kept getting hotter, with . In September, . The list goes on and on, with newspapers like The Guardian .During 2016 there was also an ongoing presidential campaign in which the candidates  views on climate science and policy should have been featured prominently. Unfortunately, climate change was , and . In fact, on Sunday news programs, Bernie Sanders brought up climate change four times more often than the program hosts.Only  the election did news networks finally examine what a President Trump would mean for the Earth s climate:As Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) noted, this was a dismal failure by the American news networks:PBS was the oasis in this desert of climate news coverage. PBS NewsHour was the only show that examined what impact a Trump or a Clinton presidency would have on climate-related issues and policies before the election. The PBS news program aired more than double the number of climate news segments as any of its network competitors, and interviewed or quoted three times more scientists than even CBS Evening News.  World News Tonight failed to interview or quote a single scientist about climate change.Perhaps unsurprisingly given his climate denial, , which partially funds PBS. About half of that federal funding . Some of those stations   especially those in rural areas which rely particularly heavily on federal funding   would likely have to shut down, were Trump to get his budgetary wish.With so little news coverage on the subject, it s also unsurprising    just 49% of Americans realize that most scientists think global warming is happening, and only 53% understand that humans are causing the problem. , only 64% worry a great deal or fair amount. That s entirely understandable   if our leaders deny the problem, and our news networks don t report on it, Americans are lacking the information signaling that global warming is an urgent threat. That s why, although Americans () would prefer that their political leaders take steps to address the problem, they don t few it as a high priority, and thus aren t bothered by the lack of political action.When future generations look back in disbelief at our failure to take the needed steps to preserve a stable climate, the history books will take a harsh view of today s media outlets and political leaders who refused to inform the public or protect its health and welfare in the face of such an immense known threat.																																																			