magine, if you will, a government board to  without any artists on it, or an  without any medical researchers.Or perhaps even, imagine a government authority set up to provide expertise on climate policy without any actual climate scientists.Well you don t have to imagine that last one, because that s what we now have   the government s Climate Change Authority is now  climate scientist. Prof David Karoly, of the University of Melbourne, has just finished his term on the authority s board   the only member to stick it out for the full five years. Karoly says without someone to replace him, the authority will struggle to fulfil its legal mandate. He told me:I asked the Department of the Environment and Energy if there were any plans to replace Karoly with another climate scientist. The department said:So in other words, it won t replace Karoly and will instead just rely on the chief scientist, Alan Finkel, to act as a go-between, which of course is much more efficient and logical than actually having a climate scientist right there in the room. That would be silly, right?Remembering too that the CCA has always had the serving chief scientist on its board so, by this logic, Karoly was always a spare part. In reality, the makeup and character of the CCA was fundamentally altered after Malcolm Turnbull made changes to the board in 2015.So why did Karoly decide to stick it out this long, when colleagues including ,  were throwing in the towel out of frustration that the government was listening to rightwing anti-science advocates instead of actual expertise? Says Karoly:Karoly s account of a shift in the authority under the Turnbull government matches that of  that  the whole character of the authority changed .In its earlier years, the CCA had been forthright in its advice to the government. Simply put, the authority s detailed reports showed targets to cut emissions were well short of what was needed if Australia wanted to mount any sort of claim to be doing its fair share globally. Under the former Liberal leader Tony Abbott, the government vowed to axe the authority entirely   but couldn t get enough support in parliament. So instead, if you believe its former insiders, the authority was carefully manipulated and undermined.As Hamilton put it, the CCA became  dominated by people who want action, but not too much action .																																																			