Madrid s city council is on the verge of temporarily slashing the number of cars allowed into the city centre by half as the Spanish capital struggles with high levels of air pollution.With levels of nitrogen dioxide rising above permitted levels, the city authorities have activated a series of anti-pollution measures, reducing the speed limit on the M30 orbital motorway around the centre and banning parking in the area for non-residents. Authorities are also urging people to use public transport wherever possible.The , or beret, of smog that hovers over Madrid prompted the council to introduce . In mid-November 2015,  the .On Tuesday, the council said that although the threshold had been met to enact a measure forbidding 50% of vehicles from entering the centre   those with number plates ending in even numbers allowed on even days and those ending in odd ones on odd days   the move would be suspended because many people were returning from the long All Saints  Day bank holiday weekend. However, the Madrid city council asks people not to head into the central area in order to lower the levels of NO2 pollution,  it said in a statement.  As an alternative, we recommend the use of public transport. Should nitrogen dioxide levels remain high on Wednesday, the council will bring in the odd/even ban in Madrid s seven central districts. Emergency services vehicles are exempt from the ban, as, among others, are taxis, zero-emission cars, motorbikes and removal vans.A number of cities have similar schemes. Last November, the mayor of Paris, Ann Hidalgo,  with the French government to introduce emergency traffic bans during pollution spikes that would see alternate driving days based on number plates. old, more polluting cars registered before 1 January 1997 from the city s streets from Monday to Friday, 8am to 8pm. In , with billions of people around the world now exposed to dangerous air.Outdoor air pollution causes    more than malaria and HIV/Aids   and is now the biggest single killer in the world. The UN says air pollutants such as sulphates, nitrates and black carbon penetrate deep into the lungs and the the cardiovascular system, posing huge risks to human health. The toll of toxic air is expected to double as urban populations increase and the number of cars in the world reaches 2bn by 2050.																																																			