Lynda and Richard Whittemore bought Quennells farm in the quiet Sussex countryside six years ago. They were hoping for what Lynda calls  an idyllic lifestyle , tending their flock of 400 pedigree sheep and 45 cattle on 180 acres of farmland.  We have an undulating field at the back of the stream, winding to the other corner,  Lynda says.  Usually it has lovely clear water, with a gentle slope down to the water supply. It s picturesque   the [livestock] don t need troughs, they can walk down to drink the water. Next door to Quennells was another farm, Crouchland. This farm was not a small-scale, pedigree operation. Crouchland had an anaerobic digester, a government subsidised dome that turns food and agricultural waste into gas which can be sold to the national grid to heat homes. Crouchland also built extra slurry vats in order to store the noxious byproducts of this process.In March 2015 there was a  nasty spill of digestate , says Lynda Whittemore, a toxic mix of slurry and chemicals linked back to Crouchland farm. It poisoned 70 acres of Quennells farmland. Whittemore recalls seeing it.  Thick, black smelly tarry stuff flowing down our stream. It was chugging along killing little frogs, fish and invertebrates. They were wiped out. The Whittemores were advised by the  to take their livestock out of the field, well away from the polluted stream after the first incident in May 2015. They had to sell their lambs earlier than intended and dig the stream out. On that occasion they were given compensation. Eleven months later, they say the stream was polluted again. This time it was smoother, blacker. It seemed even more toxic to me. The devastating thing was that we were about two weeks away from lambing. We had 430 pregnant ewes,  says Lynda.The sheep were placed on a farmtrack, they say, without access to grass. Due to the incident they lost about 30 lambs more than usual, according to their vet, with a knock-on effect on profits. Pedigree lambs were sold at normal market rate, a fraction of their real value. The Whittemores have applied for compensation, but Crouchland has gone into administration and declined to say whether they disputed the Whittemores  claim. The claim continues.Crouchland, near the village of Plaistow, in Sussex, was prosecuted for polluting a stream in 2013. The farm s biogas business went into administration this month. In a statement, its administrators, FRP Advisory, said it  could not comment on regulatory matters relating to the business or land  but said the anaerobic digestion plant was  lawful . Crouchland received nearly ?80,000 in common agricultural policy subsidies in 2015-16.  The prevalence of pollution incidents, uncovered by the  and the Guardian, means that cases like that of the Whittemores are now affecting hundreds of rural dwellers every year, with a new case of serious pollution occurring on average at least once a week. That number represents just the cases that make it to official reporting   experts and rural campaigners believe the true number of incidents may be far greater because of farmers failing to report incidents they believe are contained within their land, unwillingness among their neighbours to  shop  them even if they are affected, or a failure by the authorities to investigate reports of potential incidents.Many of the breaches are accidental, but without adequate cleanup they can cause serious damage. And without changes to equipment and working practices, the pollution incidents are more likely to happen again. In some cases, farms have been found guilty of multiple breaches, with farmers either unable to afford the work necessary to fix the problem, or willing to cover it up by scaring away inspectors or shrugging off fines as a cost of doing business. incidents have a much wider effect than on just the bordering farms and residences. When waterways are polluted, by slurry spills or pesticide misuse for instance, the effects can be disastrous on streams and on rivers. Fish kills are one common result, while the escape of noxious substances into ponds can deprive underwater life of oxygen, rendering the environs biologically dead, potentially for years if they are not regenerated.Not even future farming leaders are immune. Plumpton College, an agricultural college that teaches best practices, was discovered to be responsible for five pollution incidents from 2011 to 2016, at its working dairy farm. Last November, 20 tonnes of slurry poured into a tributary of the river Ouse, home to sea trout and protected fish such as brook lampreys and bullheads. At least 1,200 fish died when the slurry flowed down the rivulet, covering its surface with a dirty foam.The Environment Agency is investigating two more potential breaches at the Plumpton College dairy farm. None of this has stopped the college from receiving ?500,000 in taxpayer-funded EU subsidies.Jeremy Kerswell, the principal of Plumpton College, said he was unable to comment in detail on the incident from last November for legal reasons, but said the college  wholeheartedly values and promotes best practice in all aspects of its operations on the environment. We seek to promote and benefit all natural fauna and flora, our neighbours (close and distant) and the wider public.  He added:  A major reorganisation and investment programme is currently under way to promote best practice in all aspects of our farming activities and to reduce any adverse impact in our operations. The issue of subsidies is of particular concern to , chair of parliament s Environmental Audit Committee and MP for Wakefield. She called for  a much closer link between subsidies and good practice , urging that any farm business found damaging the environment should lose its taxpayer handouts. There s consensus across political parties that the future of farm subsidies has to be linked to public good,  she said.  It s about incentivising good behaviour, penalising bad behaviour. These are businesses: this is corporate crime. The financial penalty should match the offence.  companies pay out millions if they pollute. There are farmers across the country causing the same amount of damage and getting away with a slap on the wrist. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs pointed out that the criteria for subsidies under the common agricultural policy are set by the EU. A spokesperson said:  We are making real progress towards reducing pollution from farming, but we are determined to do more. Already we ve invested over ?12m to help tackle agricultural emissions and are working with the farming industry on a new strategy which will make further progress. To continue delivering significant reductions in soil and fertiliser runoff, we are helping farmers reduce water pollution through Natural England s catchment sensitive farming programme, which offers free advice and training to farmers. Agricultural pollution takes many forms, but by far the most common is leaks and . Livestock keepers are required to have adequate removal arrangements or storage facilities for any slurry produced, but these need regular maintenance and monitoring. Tanks can collapse, overflow, or fail to drain properly, while pipes can become blocked, break or leak. is a particular problem, with the UK s 2m-strong herd producing enough manure to fill the Shard   the UK s tallest building   in less than five days, or 78 Shards a year. It can be used to fertilise crops, but only at certain times of year, so must be stored in between. Inappropriate use of slurry as fertiliser, or overuse followed by heavy rain, can also pollute waterways or surrounding fields.Other forms of pollution include: the release of silage liquor, a noxious and highly corrosive effluent from the compacted and fermented crops fed to livestock in winter; the burial or inappropriate disposal of animal carcasses; and storage breaches of pesticides. Intensive farming can also produce , harming waterways and even reaching the seas. Agricultural pollution is an  endemic problem , and the major cause of the drastic decline in UK freshwater fish species, according to Mark Lloyd, chief executive of the Angling Trust.  Other processes such as waste management, sewerage and chemical plants have rightly been very heavily regulated to reduce their pollution significantly in recent decades, but agriculture seems to enjoy special status, in spite of the billions of pounds of taxpayers  money being spent on subsidies. Pollution from farms needs to be addressed urgently, according to experts and campaign groups, especially as . Stephen Marsh-Smith, chief executive of Afonydd Cymru, the body that protects Welsh rivers, said:  If you re trying to restore a river, you cannot have frequent pollution dumps with fish dying. It can take up to 10 years to recover. Poor regulation and enforcement by government is allowing this to happen. The Environment Agency said:  While rivers in England are the healthiest they have been for 20 years, we recognise pollution from farms can have significant impact on rivers and the environment. We take pollution incidents seriously and targeting pollution from farms is one of our priorities. We respond quickly to incidents to limit the impact of pollutants and, where appropriate, we take action against those responsible. Back at Quennells, Lynda Whittemore says that the ecology of their farm is recovering, to an extent. The stream runs clear again now, but they say many trees died. She and her husband say they would have to give up farming if it happened again as seeing their livestock die was traumatic.  It s quite horrible to think there were toxic products travelling through our farm. It should be stopped.  The business has gone into administration but the Crouchland complex remains and the villagers wonder who will clean it up and pay for it. The Whittemores both feel that the Environment Agency is toothless.  They should have the power to close places down if they keep doing this. 																																																			