ll my life I have read stories. A few years ago, quite out of the blue, I started to write one. I was 40. My children were two and five. I had a job with fairly long hours; at home, the constant churn of domestic duties. On paper, it was not the best time to decide to start. I couldn t even point to a childhood spent stapling books. But for me the urge was irrefusable, unquietable. I had no say in it; it seemed to speak itself, and it happened like this.My neighbours and I had got together to tidy up a patch of wasteland near our houses. For years it had been a dumping ground. There was a rabbit hutch, the rusted bones of old bicycles, mattresses that had rotted to the coils. Every time we pushed a spade into the ground it came up with old bottles, plant pots, plastic bags, dismembered dolls, bones, buttons and glass. There was so much glass. After each rainfall, our turned earth glistened with newly surfaced shards.Sometimes, I felt I was being watched. Years earlier, long before my time, a few neighbours had planted native trees and bushes in the waste   hornbeams, maples,    so that when you looked up all you saw was green. But still the sensation would make me turn, and then I d see, through the tangle of nettles and brambles, the triangulated stare of the fox. He was uncowed by being spotted. He seemed to have an opinion on our work; an interest he appeared keen to communicate. When I dug a hole, for instance, the next day I found the fox had dug a hole inside my hole. When I put down a few rolls of turf, the fox lifted them up.It was easy to read into these moments some kind of human communication. The fox was being pure fox, and nothing but fox, and yet it was possible for a human to feel addressed in a kindred language of gesture and action. My foot was resting on the shoulder of the spade, the sun filtering through the lime leaves.  I m going to write a story. About a fox,  I said to my neighbour. He looked slightly bemused and said nothing.  I m going to write a story about a fox,  I said again. I am one of those people who tends to think instead of speaking, so the sound of the words, their conviction, took me by surprise. There were a few of us stood around, but none was as excited about the idea as me.In that moment, I seemed to see the whole thing. It shone for me with a lucidity I searched for during the two years of writing that followed. It would be about a woman who believed herself to be addressed by a fox, and about a fox who would make this interpretation possible while protecting the truth of his intentions, and whose wildness would somehow prevail. I didn t know, back then, that the woman would end up going through a sort of emotional rewilding.I knew I wanted to write an urban pastoral. Nature writing, now so popular, remains largely the preserve of the countryside, and I really wanted to write a book bursting with the soundscape of the city. Some of this I said a few months later in an interview for a place on the creative writing master s at the University of East Anglia, but that too was a post-rationalisation of what I felt in that moment. The truth is, I just saw the story and knew, after a lifetime of composing sentences in my head, that I must write it.I took a few days off work. Starting was simpler than I thought, because it was possible to make up anything. I had no responsibility to report the truth, only to create it, and it was totally up to me how to do that. (Beginning turned out to be much easier than finishing, when all those truths have created their own logic and must play themselves out truthfully.) I sat at the table in the lounge and looked out the window at the trees in the wasteland. It was so green out there, perspective itself seemed to be made of leaves, and that is what I started to write. For a couple of months, I wrote only at that window, believing that the story was somehow glued to the view. I worried if I peeled myself away, the story might stick behind. But it didn t work out like that.I carried the story everywhere, on trains (on the commute to the MA), on the bike, on the fitful weekend jog. At night when I went to bed, I curled up and went to sleep inside it, in the darkness of it, in all its unresolved questions. I can still picture that first sighting of the fox, and of the story, and while I know that other factors must have made me ready for the moment   looking back, life was so busy, I think I really wanted to stake out my own territory again   the fox, the leaves, were the start of it.The experience of writing was absolutely consuming, but I felt there had never been so much of me.  by Paula Cocozza is published on 6 April by Hutchinson (?12.99). To order a copy for ?9.74, go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over ?10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of ?1.99. 																																																			