Last week, the House  Science  committee held one of  to dispute the validity of climate science research. Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) articulated the purpose of the hearing when speaking at a recent :For that, :Climate scientist Michael Mann was one of the witnesses testifying in last week s hearing. In the event s defining exchange, Mann quoted The Princess Bride, and then proceeded to quote Mervis  condemnation of Lamar Smith:Smith responded by asserting  that is not known as an objective writer or magazine,  to which the scientific community collectively gasped in horror. This is the magazine associated with Science which, along with Nature, are the two most highly-respected peer-reviewed scientific journals in the world. Mervis has been writing about science policy for Science magazine for 24 years. Lamar Smith, on the other hand is , entered a Wall Street Journal op-ed into the congressional record, and said this shortly after President Trump s inauguration:Unfortunately, as is usually the case in these hearings, despite being presented with the opportunity to learn from climate experts, most of the committee members seemed more interested in expressing their beliefs, however uninformed they might be.At the 2:04:05 mark in the hearing video, Rep. Dan Webster (R-FL) provided a perfect example of this behavior. He began by asking witness Judith Curry what causes ice ages (, which we ve known for nearly 100 years), so that he could make the point that    a point that usually leads to a common logical fallacy ().Webster proceeded to claim it was  the standard belief of most scientists  in the 1970s that the Earth was headed into an ice age. This is another ; in reality, most climate scientists in the 1970s were predicting impending global warming. However, some scientists had projected that if the amount of sulfur dioxide pollution in the atmosphere were to quadruple, that would block enough sunlight to cause dramatic cooling. But since that pollution was also causing acid rain, governments developed regulations like the Clean Air Act, and . The scientists  projection wasn t wrong; rather, the scenario didn t happen because we took action to prevent it, much like if we take sufficient action to cut carbon pollution, we can prevent dangerous global warming. But Rep. Webster spent most of his allotted time expressing his ideologically-convenient beliefs about how clueless climate scientists are, rather than learning from the experts sitting in front of him. Dr. Mann could easily have explained this myth, but wasn t given the opportunity.Curry spent most of her time exaggerating climate uncertainties, . In his first question to the witnesses, Lamar Smith made it clear that s why she was invited (emphasis added):To be clear, it s been decades since we ve known enough about climate science to understand . In fact, . When driving a car on a foggy night, slowing down is the wise response to impaired vision; putting the pedal to the metal because of uncertainty as to whether there s a brick wall ahead would be stupid.In fact, as Mann explained at the 1:09:36 mark in the video, many climate impacts are happening  than expected. The brick wall is coming into view. Even one of the Republicans  own witnesses, Roger Pielke Jr. argued at the 1:57:05 mark for Congress to act:Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX) half-jokingly called this  blasphemy.  There was also a consensus among the witnesses that  would be damaging and counter-productive. If Republicans want to argue that we don t know enough to take action on climate change, cutting research funding would be grossly hypocritical. That s like turning off the headlights and putting on sunglasses.Speaking of consensus, Mann was the only witness who accurately represented the conclusions of    a point that was frequently raised during the hearing. Fellow witness John Christy, for example,  of publishing climate scientists who minimize human-caused global warming. His testimony focused on wrongly claiming that climate models have been falsified, using .Eventually, Lamar Smith claimed  there is no consensus; the 97% was derived from a small sample of a small sample.  My colleagues and I have a new paper addressing this claim that will be soon be published, so we ll return to this myth within the next few weeks.There was one particularly McCarthyesque exchange at the 1:28:50 mark in which Rep. Clay Higgins (R-LA) inquired:This brought to mind a scene from The American President:Higgins  concern is that members of  have suggested that if documents reveal that ExxonMobil knew of the threats its product poses (they did   we now know ), like the tobacco industry,  under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. Rep. Higgins doesn t like this idea and confronted Mann, who is a scientific advisor to many climate organizations, including the Climate Accountability Institute. However, 17 state attorneys general have already formed  and determine if it s guilty of fraud, so it s difficult to understand why Higgins would attack Dr. Mann about this in what was supposed to be a scientific hearing.Unfortunately, last week s hearing confirmed that far too many Republican Party leaders are more interested in protecting the profits of big oil and coal companies than preserving a livable climate for future generations.																																																			