Jeremy Corbyn has accused Theresa May of a  dereliction of duty to our country and our planet  for failing to give a stronger condemnation of .The Labour leader said the prime minister was showing herself to be subservient to the US president and claimed he would take a very different approach to relations with Washington.Corbyn said he would be happy to host Trump in No 10 if he were prime minister and would try to politely persuade him over a cup of tea that tackling climate change was important. I appeal to the American people, think about the consequences to the entire planet and your economy of what you re doing,  he said.  Would I meet and host  in Downing Street? Yes. Would I talk to him? Yes. Would I be polite? Absolutely. And I d offer him some Yorkshire tea. I do not believe you get anywhere by insulting people and shouting at them. I would try and persuade him the best I could to understand the reality that there is no hiding place from environmental disaster and climate change. May has expressed disappointment at Trump s decision to pull out of the landmark deal on reducing carbon emissions but did not sign a joint statement between the leaders of France, Germany and Italy that .Speaking at an event on Labour s industrial strategy in York, Corbyn said Trump s actions were  reckless and dangerous , and May had not been strong enough in distancing herself from his position.  Given the chance to present a united front with our international partners, she has instead opted for silence and subservience to Donald Trump. It is a dereliction of her duty both to our country and to our planet,  he said.  That is not the type of leadership Britain needs to negotiate Brexit. Pressed on what his own approach would be, the Labour leader said:  It is a very sad day when the president of the US is trying to get off the bus that has taken so long for all of us to persuade others to get on. So I will give him that Yorkshire tea. I will persuade him the very best I can.  At the launch event, Corbyn and his shadow business secretary, Rebecca Long-Bailey, said Labour would help create a million jobs across the regions of the UK through a national investment fund. He said green industries would help drive growth and be important for the environment. I am very keen we will do everything we can not just to protect but to enhance biodiversity,  the Labour leader said.  We will not be promoting . We will not be polluting groundwater. 																																																			