ith over half the world s population now living in cities, and  people due to join them by 2035, urban  liveability  has become a pressing concern.What can be done to make city living safer, healthier and less alienating? How can design tackle rising urban inequality and promote social integration? And what, if anything, is the role of the private sector? A panel of property developers, charities, city councils, architects and academics gathered to discuss these questions at a Guardian Roundtable, chaired by Guardian journalist and editor Tess Riley and supported by property and infrastructure company Lendlease.The world s most liveable cities (think Melbourne, Vancouver, Vienna) are not necessarily the richest or most beautiful, according to Helene Joffe, professor of psychology at UCL, yet they excel in sociability: friendly streets, mixed neighbourhoods, vibrant public spaces. When we ask people to think about their city aspirations, we find social connectedness comes out top of the list,  said Joffe.  People want to be part of a community in cities. Scott Cain from Future Cities Catapult, a centre for the advancement of smart cities, concurred:  Regardless of whether you re an introvert or an extrovert, social interaction remains the most important factor in wellbeing. Ageing cities expert June Crown said  from our bustling cities is a key part of this. A number of initiatives are working to address this, including , which incorporates visits to the elderly into people s jogging routines, and , which pairs young professionals with older residents in their communities. Apart from anything else, Love Your Neighbour highlights how much young people crave community, said Alex Smith, founder of the North London Cares charity that runs the programme.Central to what s happening in our cities is what s unfolding on our streets. The key word for Yolande Barnes, director of world research at Savills, is  density : the more people you can squeeze in per block, the more chance of a hustle-and-bustle ambience. She cites the Centro district of Madrid and New York s Chinatown as classic archetypes of tightly packed neighbourhoods with a buzz.Urban density is in vogue among commercial property developers. If we are to avoid ever more urban sprawl, the current argument goes, cities need to grow upwards rather than outwards. But does building dense, vertical cities mean we are effectively saying farewell to green urban spaces? Not necessarily, said Paul King, managing director of sustainability and external affairs at Lendlease in Europe. King gave the example of Elephant and Castle, a south London district renowned for brutalist concrete, being regenerated by Lendlease. Although the area will be more densely populated than before, the ?3bn project includes street trees, pedestrian areas, water recovery systems and roof gardens, he said. Achieving sustainability without density isn t always easy. Sue Riddlestone described a housing project Bioregional is currently pursuing in London. All 600 proposed homes are sustainably designed and  truly affordable , and the financing is in place. But securing land on which to build the development at a viable price is nigh-on impossible. We can t compete with a developer that is coming in just to do a really big tower and isn t thinking about any of these things,  she said.  So we just won t win sites and we won t be doing these developments. Corinne Swain, a planning specialist at Arup, urged people to consider green space as more than just parks and recreation grounds   , veg-patches on rooftops, even plant-strewn  green scaffolding  can bring nature and greenery to urban neighbourhoods.  There are benefits in terms of noise mitigation and air pollution too,  said Swain.For Tom Platt at advocacy group Living Streets,  walkability  trumps a verdant park or pretty canal any day.  Green access is important for people s health, but the biggest health impact streets and green access have is in enabling physical activities,  he argued.For cities to become more pedestrian- and cyclist-friendly, their streets need to be wrested back from the automobile. That won t be easy. Cars increasingly dominate our lives and the  political difficulty  of restricting people s access to private transport is substantial, Platt said.Yet it s not impossible to reverse the tide. Copenhagen, for example, now has . Bioregional, meanwhile, has designed a residential development in south London suburbia where car-parking and road space are radically restricted. Because people walk rather than drive, opportunities for them to bump into one another have increased, said Riddlestone. Historically, the job of designing cities has fallen to planning departments, local authorities and a host of other government agencies and organisations   and all attendees agreed the state must continue to set the goalposts. Yet making our cities liveable isn t just the government s job. While social enterprises such as the  and  (both of which enable local people to share everyday items) are helping engineer sociability into our cities, property developers have a key role to play. King said Lendlease now sees communal spaces in apartment blocks as  essential  and rooftop allotments are considered in all new developments. Despite the positives, the disconnect between the drive for profits and the need for affordable housing remains a concern. Seb Klier, London campaigns manager at Generation Rent, criticised the desperate lack of business investment in social housing and the ability of private landlords to evict renters at short notice:  We ve got a massive growing population of private renters and we do need some sort of policy change to ensure that security of tenure is there for these people. Klier suggested reintroducing long-term or even lifetime tenures would be a positive step and urged the government to  think very strongly  about how land owned by the state could be used to maximise affordable housing.																																																			