It s great you are giving this so much thought, but you are looking, pretty much, at the worst-case scenario. And that did make me wonder, if you did have children, if you would always look at every event or outing they went on, like this. I never knew the meaning of the word worry until I had children but there are times when you do need the confidence to take a perspective on things and let go a little.I consulted Lucy Johnson, a  (), and she was struck by  the depth of sadness you feel over not seeing your nieces and nephews. I wondered whether it was easier to acknowledge your longing for them, than be able to acknowledge your longing for a child of your own?  I also wondered about a sense of loss at your sister emigrating and what you felt that left you with? We were struck by how  alone you seem in this decision. While it sounds as if your partner finds uncertainty unsettling, you will be parenting together and one of the first acts of parenting is making the choice to have the baby together. Deciding to have the baby is really only the first big step you take together as parents   will you also be alone in the others, having to  present a position  to your partner? I wondered   and I say this really tentatively   if this wasn t just a question of having children, but having children with this man? You made no hint of this and it s sheer conjecture on my part, but it is something I feel is worth mentioning. There is very much just one viewpoint coming from your letter. Perhaps your partner could actually give you some perspective on this? If he really can t, will you in effect be, emotionally, parenting solo?The fact that you are ambivalent is incredibly sensible. The choice to have a child is a big one, but because it s so big, it s easy to paralyse oneself by the negative what-ifs. What is harder to factor in, to imagine, are the  wows . What I felt was missing from your letter is hope,  says Johnson.  Women get pregnant in all sorts of desperate circumstances and in doing so, either consciously or unconsciously, they are choosing life over potential death. I wonder whether, on some level, your worry about climate change is a cover for some deeper ambivalence. Obviously no one can make this decision for you (both), but Johnson suggests:  I wonder if, in making your decision, it might help you to move from the global to the personal, and explore the areas that you have more control over: for instance, how does the thought of creating space in your life for a child feel? What would it mean for your career or your relationship? I also think that, to really come to a decision that is right for you you need to think not only of what happens if you do have a child, but also what it means for you if you don t.  How would you feel,  asks Johnson,  if you decided not to have a child, and action on climate change did keep the global temperature at safe levels? Ultimately, try to forget about everything else for a moment and think:  Where do I want to be in 10 years and who do I want to be with me?  Really, that bit is all you have any control over.Contact Annalisa Barbieri, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU, or email annalisa.barbieri@mac.com. Annalisa regrets she cannot enter into personal correspondence.Follow Annalisa on Twitter 																																																			