It s great to see that you are highlighting plastic waste. I have developed an engineering day for schoolchildren in which they learn about the life cycle of a bottle of shampoo, which I deliver to schools throughout the north-east of England. It demonstrates where plastic comes from (crude oil), and also considers how it is disposed of.I raise a major concern with students that, for their future, they need to: ensure they recycle and reuse as much as possible; look for alternatives to using plastic packaging etc; and consider careers in science and engineering which will allow them to work on issues caused by overuse of plastic that will arise in their lifetime.It is so important to educate young people on this. I know a lot of campaigns are aimed at adults, and they should continue. But I would like to see more work in schools.I live in Campinas, Brazil where drinking water is readily available and of good quality until it leaves the various plants. The pipes in the delivery system are in bad shape and most people buy water for drinking and use tap water for other tasks.In many developing countries, we are well provided with recyclers who collect and then sell everything they garner from the street as an income. The best and most illustrative example of recycling plastic bottles was the year the city council collected undamaged bottles, and separated them by colour. They then made Christmas decorations for the whole city. Many, many bottles were used and it worked   20-metre-tall Christmas trees were built, and parks and squares throughout the city were decorated.This hasn t, however, been repeated. I think many of the wealthy in the city were far from happy having garbage decorating the streets.The Guardian is doing a good job bringing the issue of plastic bottles to more public attention. Many don t give it any thought, thinking that disposing of the odd bottle carelessly does not matter. Far more widespread public information and campaigning is needed. As well as recycling my own bottles, I have added my name to campaigns by 38 Degrees, Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace. In addition to lobbying governments, we need to pressure manufacturers to use alternatives. These might include: Refill packs. Waxed card [packaging] could be used extensively, from which consumers can refill their plastic bottles at home. This would cover many products from detergents to shampoo. In fact, many products would be fine in these anyway. Using the type with a plastic screw top would still be a big improvement, and easier to open. Waxed packaging can also be recycled. A related issue is the pump-action trigger pack. A screw-on assembly would make refills possible. The moulded-on assembly used by many manufacturers prevents such refills. It also makes recycling very difficult because plastic bottles going to recycling should be rinsed out. Manufacturers should be legally obliged to put a large notice on the front of their bottles to say what proportion of recycled plastic has been used. Many commenters on the Bottling It articles have highlighted the widespread use of recycling machines in continental supermarkets, which should be adopted in the UK. You put your empty bottle in, and get a money-off coupon for your next purchase. We should have separate public litter bins for glass and plastics. No doubt cash-strapped local authorities would struggle to afford them; an enlightened government would pay for the actual bins. An international clean-up is needed. There should be a compulsory levy on large manufacturers. Some types of machinery to collect from the surface of open oceans have already been proposed.I belong to a group of mostly retired people called the  who volunteer in association with the David Suzuki Foundation in Vancouver, Canada. We are concerned about living in a sustainable fashion and protecting our environment from further degradation. Most of us were born before plastic became widely available, and yes, life was just as satisfying when we didn t throw millions of tons of plastic into our oceans each year. The Suzuki Elders support limiting the purchase and use of disposable plastics, and one of our educational programmes   directed at children and called  Playing without Plastic    is another step in the right direction.The majority of plastic bottles are binned fully formed, taking up a huge amount of space: the volume of a typical plastic bottle is 500ml and a flattened one only 70ml. An empty plastic bottle can be reduced in volume in a number of ways: flattened, twisted, crushed and mechanically chewed to pieces. The technology for doing all of these things is basic and familiar engineering and I am sure that there would be a place for portable devices. Reducing the volume of bottles would make the gathering, transport and processing of plastic detritus much more efficient.On a final note: why not have a design competition and see what solutions are offered? I think the Bottling It initiative is great. In developed countries which can afford and enforce regulation, I believe the approach adopted for plastic bags and incandescent lightbulbs should be considered for water and drinks plastic bottles. This might mean, for instance, putting a fixed fee on all plastic bottles (unless they re recycled), and gradually forbidding by law all plastic bottles smaller than 1.5 litres.From a consumer s perspective we should stop buying bottled water! Tap water is safe in developed countries, and drinking water treatment plants aren t less regulated and controlled than bottled water companies. If you live in a place where you know for sure tap water isn t safe, like the Democratic Republic of the Congo where I live, consumers should buy large bottles of water (eg 5 litres and above), or go for a water cooler/dispenser.Could a solution be a Cost to the Community Tax (CCT) on all plastics? The CCT would be pretty hefty if the costs of plastic pollution are as great as you and Greenpeace state. This would both bring in big revenues to pay for long overdue clean-up operations and also start to suppress demand for plastic packaging, which would become more expensive than less environmentally damaging types of packaging.As long as plastic is cheap to use and neither producers nor consumers pay for post-consumption costs to the community, including damage to the ecosystem, I cannot see how or why people will change their behaviour. Here in Germany all liquids sold in plastic bottles include extra for the bottle. At the next visit all plastic bottles are returned as is the deposit. As a consequence, there are no plastic bottles lying around as all are reused/recycled.We should adopt a Robin Hood approach to plastic bottles:The 5p charge on plastic shopping bags saw usage plummet. Cost is a great driver.I have worked in relief and development for many years and the Bottling It series struck a chord. One of the most difficult aspects of relief work is supplying clean water to affected communities rapidly. In the past, bottled water has been used extensively and to a large extent it still is.It has a number of advantages:However, the drawbacks are not insignificant:To get around this, organisations such as Unicef and the World Food Programme (and NGOs and others) try to move in water purification equipment as soon as possible. Some programmes who front-load bottled water will accept the bottles for refilling from the purification equipment, but this is only haphazardly implemented.I m just back from Norway where I saw a chilling exhibition in Bergen s Cultural History Museum  that was found dying in a fjord at Sotra. When scientists opened the whale s stomach, they found it full of plastic debris that had blocked its digestive system: bags, bottles, and more. There has been a huge campaign to recycle promoted at all the fisheries museums in Norway, but most of the plastic bags found in the whale s stomach had English text on them.And then I was given two plastic cups on the flight home ...																																																			