It seems the Earth has a sense of irony.  Record-breaking heat  is possible at the People s Climate March in DC on Saturday, where thousands of people are planning to protest against the president s climate change policies on his 100th day in office. Trump s initiatives include, but are not limited to,  in the Environmental Protection Agency and potentially .Among those suffering in the heat will be former vice-president Al Gore and, , Leonardo DiCaprio. It is likely to take a titanic effort to change the other Wolf of Wall Street s mind, however, as Trump has repeatedly said that the inception of climate change had nothing to do with mankind. Only 1,361 more days of this to go!A group of senators, including Resistance regular Bernie Sanders, this week unveiled legislation .Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their allies . The May Day protests are traditionally led by unions and labor groups, but this year   galvanized by the Trump administration   immigration, racial justice, gender equality and LGBT groups will be playing a big part.Demonstrations will take place. Activist groups are launching a  on the same day, which will see demonstrations at the offices of companies seen to be supporting or benefiting from the Trump presidency. Targets include JP Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs.Trump will be met by thousands of Luke Skywalkers, Hans Solos, and, depending on individuals  tastes, Jar Jar Binkses when he returns to New York City next week. It s the president s first trip to his home city since inauguration day but he will be met by protests. Given Trump s visit comes on 4 May (May the fourth be with you, etc), organizers .The president, , will be visiting the USS Intrepid aircraft carrier-cum-museum with the Australian prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull. The NYPD says it costs $308,000 a day to protect Trump during his New York jaunts.There has been a 1,035% spike in Islamophobic incidents at US borders during Trump s first 100 days,  (Cair).In a press conference on Thursday Cair s executive director, Nihad Awad, said the group, which he founded in 1994, had  never seen a spike  under any previous administration. A coalition of Muslim organizations is holding a two-day meeting in Washington on 1-2 May when they will lobby elected representatives to take action.  Trump is the worst thing that could have happened to the planet,  , but his catastrophic attitude towards the environment has at least forced politicians, and some private enterprises, to step up. In related news, the Trump administration is considering allowing oil and gas companies to drill off the Atlantic seaboard. The president has ordered his interior department to  review offshore areas potentially rich in fossil fuels that were put out of reach of drilling by Barack Obama s administration , .On Wednesday the government  for people to report crimes committed by  illegal aliens . It appears to be another anti-immigrant step by the Trump administration   but the plan was reportedly thwarted when people called the hotline to report UFO sightings. Or sightings of Superman. Or Big Foot. .																																																			