ince mid May the hawthorn next to my kitchen window has been covered with greenfly. The leaves and stems are plastered with clusters of the sap-sucking insects and a dandruff of white cast skins, which the sub-adults moult as they mature.Reproducing asexually by parthenogenesis, these  give birth to live offspring born with the embryos of the next generation inside their bodies. Nymphs reach sexual maturity in as little as five days, and a reproductively active adult can produce up to 12 genetic copies of itself a day.I m used to seeing wasps, blue tits, ladybirds and their larvae feasting on this aphid army, but one morning I noticed three common carder bumblebees, a red-tailed bumblebee and a buff-tailed bumblebee scouting the tree. Their presence was curious. Bumblebees don t prey on other insects and there was no nectar as the infested flower buds were deformed and had failed to open. I went outside to investigate, and discovered that the bees were landing on the foliage and unrolling their tongues to mop up , the sticky fluid excreted by aphids as they feed. Surprised by this behaviour, I contacted the . They told me that there is limited research on the subject, but that every year they receive reports from members of the public who witness this phenomenon.It is most often observed in areas where there is little in flower, which could indicate that honeydew is a nectar substitute when suitable forage plants are scarce. This is perplexing, as my organically cultivated wildlife garden is blooming with an array of bee-friendly plants. Despite my wildflower meadow and herbaceous borders buzzing, over the past few weeks I have recorded seven  making daily visits to the hawthorn. Scientists have expressed concern that feeding on honeydew could expose bumblebees to plant toxins evolved to counteract sucking pests. Honeydew also lacks protein, which provides essential nourishment for a colony s developing brood. However, most of the worker bees have arrived at the tree with their pollen baskets already bulging. They appear to gather protein-rich pollen from the flowers, then seek out honeydew rather than feeding on nectar. But why?																																																			