In our village, we have seen both the potential and the limitations of people-led efforts to tackle litter (, 13 July). The parish council and the local transition village group have worked together to both inform people about the wider environmental problems of litter, especially plastic, and to develop a network of individuals who have undertaken to keep specific roads or areas free of litter. Volunteers were provided with good-quality litter pickers (available from the Keep Britain Tidy campaign) and gloves, and a map was put up in the parish office showing the areas covered.The results have been fantastic: lots of volunteers mean that most of the village is litter-free most of the time. I am sure that Wendy Harvey s hope that the sight of people picking up litter raises awareness and discourages (but doesn t stop) others from dropping litter. A campaign at the local secondary school, has undoubtedly contributed as well.However, the village has two major arteries running through its outskirts   the tidal River Avon near its meeting with the Severn, and the A369 between Bristol and Portishead. Both bring in huge amounts of litter which our campaign hasn t really touched, despite organised litter picks by groups of local people, and the huge popularity of a local nature reserve that borders a significant section of the A369. I m convinced that more communities could follow our example, with great benefits in so many ways. But let s not pretend that it would crack the problem: we need action by the government (eg a deposit system for plastic bottles) and by retailers, who should be doing much more to reduce the vast and unnecessary amounts of packaging   mainly plastic and not all recyclable   they use. A campaign called   already exists as a network and was started in Marseilles in 2015 by Edmund Platt, a Leeds-born man. His idea was to encourage everyone to pick up at least one piece of rubbish every day and put it into the nearest bin.Since January 2016, I have been following his example. Using my free bus pass, I travel all over England and , of the rubbish I ve collected, in an attempt to encourage others to follow suit. Picking up a piece of rubbish is an activity that costs nothing, it s in the fresh air, it s a little bit of exercise and it s guaranteed to make you feel empowered to make a difference! Like your letter writer Wendy Harvey, I feel sure that, with more publicity (maybe the Guardian could champion this cause?) and the sharing of information, this campaign could flourish into a national habit and make a hugely positive impact on our environment. United, together we can make our country beautiful again. I actively pick up litter on my daily dog walks (including other people s dogs  poo) around the streets and parks where I live. However, I strongly believe that as a society someone needs to take a policy lead in our attitudes to the environment in which we all live. I have no doubt I was influenced by the Keep Britain Tidy campaigns in the 1960s and 70s. Now more than ever we need quirky, funny public information campaigns to counter the selfish throwaway culture. Environmental NGOs need to be encouraged to take on government and big business on plastic bottles and cans fouling our parks and rivers. How about emulating a lot of states in the US who charge a tiny deposit (say 5p)? Wendy Harvey s suggestion that we all commit to doing our own little bit to tackle the current deluge of litter deserves our support, but perhaps a sensible start would be to re-employ and pay a decent wage to the thousands of road sweepers and litter pickers laid off in the name of austerity in recent years. I like the idea of a campaign to promote litter-collecting. But please, no stickers or badges. The world is suffocating under a sea of pointless plastic toys and  promotional  freebies made in China that probably don t even get recycled but end up in landfill. For the same reason, can we ban children s party bags? Well said, Wendy Harvey. Here in my?home town I have been doing exactly that every day for several years on my short walk around the corner to collect my Guardian. Add other initiatives such?as hedge- and verge-trimming, snow-clearance and path-sweeping, and we may begin to restore the concept of civic pride once far more prevalent in our communities. When asked why I do it, my usual response is to quote Voltaire    pour encourager les autres . I am pleased to report that it is beginning to have some effect. I totally agree with Wendy Harvey that there should be a sensible national programme to eliminate litter from our streets by people being encouraged to always pick up and bin one piece of litter every time they go out. She asked for a slogan to spearhead the campaign. How about:  This is your country, why make it a mess?  The problem in the past has been that previous campaigns have been too lily-livered about emphasising the personal involvement in one s own environment which is required to get rid of litter. Nowadays one has to shout to make people take notice, even in their own interest.																																																			