his week, I learned that Sirocco   media superstar, comedy legend and one of the world s  - has . The , who lives wild on a remote New Zealand island, evaded a recent search by scientists who wanted to capture him for a routine health check. Today is Sirocco s 20th birthday   or  hatchday  to be precise   but no one can say for certain whether he is alive or dead. Is he an ex-parrot or is he just resting? Is he out there pining or has he passed on?Despite this being the biggest parrot story since , Sirocco s disappearance seems to have ruffled few feathers. The media has been slow to pick up on his disappearance, and the bureau responsible for policing the world s parrots   Interpolly   has yet to file a  missing parrot report . But why should we care that a big, green, dumpy parrot has gone Awol? Allow me to explain.First and foremost, Sirocco is one of the rarest, most unusual parrots on the planet. Once so common they could be shaken from the boughs of New Zealand s trees like apples, k k p s took a hammering after human settlers haphazardly introduced predatory non-native species such as stoats and rats. Large, flightless and tasty, k k p s were easy pickings. At their lowest ebb, in 1995, there were just 51 left alive. Now, thanks to an , there are 154. Sirocco is one of them.Secondly, Sirocco is a comedy genius. The frisky fellow rocketed to fame when he tried to mate with the zoologist Mark Carwardine , prompting co-host Stephen Fry to comment,  You are being shagged by a rare parrot. When you have the chick, I want you to call it Stephen.  It was post-watershed TV gold: a moment of innocent parrot porn that has since titillated more than 7 million viewers on YouTube (beat that, Snowball).Thirdly, Sirocco is a Kiwi national treasure (impressive since he s not an actual Kiwi) whose life story bears all the hallmarks of a genuine rock n roll star.There were the difficult formative years, when chick-hood illness saw him prised from the nest to be reared by strangers. A bold move that undoubtedly saved his life, it was the start of an unnatural addiction that continues to blight his life: Sirocco became hooked on humans.As an adolescent on the remote , he eschewed female k k p s, preferring instead to serenade the researchers that stayed there with his booming, bass-heavy love song   night after night after night. When it became clear he would never father chicks of his own, conservationists dreamed up another way for him to help his species. Sirocco became New Zealand s official  spokesbird for conservation . Since then he s visited the New Zealand parliament, and now alternates jet-setting around to meet his human fans, with periods of wild respite.The good news is, I am certain that Sirocco is still alive. I know this because he s still posting regular updates to his 13,600 followers on Twitter ()   which is ironic given that he can  boom ,  skraaark ,  ching  and make all manner of weird noises, but he can t tweet. , fans have speculated that he is having a midlife crisis   unlikely, as k k p s can live well past 70, making Sirocco a whippersnapper   or that he has gone to steal a birthday kiss from Mark Carwardine. The truth, however, may be more mundane. This is not a poly-gon: rather a polly-in-hiding.When I spoke to Andrew Digby, science adviser for the K k p  Recovery Programme, he told me that Sirocco is probably alive and well on the same predator-free island where they left him, but has inadvertently  gone dark  because his radio transmitter has failed. All k k p s are fitted with them, but 5% of the electronic devices go on the blink each year. They hope to track him down later this year.For me, it s entirely in keeping with Sirocco s hectic, superstar lifestyle that he should choose to take a break from the limelight. My prediction is that he s taking some time out to recharge his creative juices before making a spectacular comeback next breeding season. In the meantime: happy birthday, Sirocco.																																																			