his Sunday marks the return of a US pastime that s up there with baseball and apple pie: Discovery Channel s Shark Week. When it began in 1988, the event was a beneficiary of the pop-culture sensation started by the release of . The film launched sharks into the national consciousness with a potent mix of blood-thirst and perverse thrills. Since Jaws, sharks have continued to chomp through the popular imagination: from the ridiculous (the sharks in Austin Powers, featuring laser beams on their heads, and the Tara Reid-helmed disaster movie Sharknado) to memeable oddities such as Finding Nemo s Bruce.But in the past few years, Shark Week has come under fire for its own bout of  fake news  after airing a documentary in 2013 called Megalodon: The Monster Shark Lives. Save for a momentary disclaimer that called the events portrayed  dramatized , Megalodon more or less led audiences to believe a shark that s been extinct for at least 2.6m years in fact still roams the ocean blue, corroborating its findings by willfully misquoting scientists and shark cognoscenti.It s this kind of sensationalism   or downright conspiracism   that has bumped up against the original intentions of Shark Week, which were conservation and science- based. Therein lies the central paradox of Shark Week, which drives massive viewership to Discovery which, in turn, sells uber-lucrative advertisements. The weeklong television event reeled in its best ratings ever in 2015 before a slight dip in viewership last year, when it aired earlier than usual because of the Rio Olympics. But there s no denying that the average Shark Week viewer wants depictions of the beasts in all their mythic glory, hence titles such as Wrath of a Great White Serial Killer, The Return of the Monster Mako and Shallow Water Invasion, all accompanied by the requisite spooky music. It s linked to a primal fear about the predator that since Jaws, and perhaps well before, has followed it around. One critic said:     a 4,000lb Tony Soprano who is perfect for prime-time TV.Shark Week has indeed engaged in quite a bit of fear-mongering, while also grossly overstating the threat sharks pose to humans: you re more likely to be killed by vending machines. Sharks, on the other hand, are fatally threatened by us; a  in Marine Policy found that humans kill about 11,000 sharks an hour, or between 100 and 273m a year. In 2015, Discovery brought on president Rich Ross, who pledged an end to documentaries of the Megalodon sort. And in the two installments since, Shark Week has been marginally more restrained in its sensationalist flourishes while also driving some tangible changes, such as congressional  introduced last year banning shark finning.This year, Discovery s banking on that imagined tug-of-war between man and shark yet again with a  battle for ocean supremacy . The most successful Olympian of all time, , will kick off Shark Week on Sunday night with a race against a Great White. In concept, the spectacle is compelling: Phelps, a ridiculous physical specimen with a body practically tailor-made for competitive swimming, versus the Great White, a fixture in our imaginations, the menacing byproduct of 450 years of evolutionary enhancement. But the Olympian doesn t really stand a chance.While Phelps squares off with the Great White, his former team-mate and fellow gold medalist  will be taking part in National Geographic s bald-faced Shark Week competitor, SharkFest. Lochte won t be racing a shark, but the event s being branded as some sort of competition, with the name  Jeah! vs. Jaws .Kicking off Shark Week is a 100-meter race between 28-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps and a great white shark. While Discovery hasn t offered too much information as to how this race will actually work, it s safe to say they didn t put a great white in a lap pool.Following Phelps is a special hosted by Dr Mark Meekan and conservationist Paul de Gelder, who traveled to the remote Coburg peninsula in the Northern Territory of Australia, where sharks and crocodiles supposedly go head-to-head over sea turtles in this special produced by Big Wave.In Shark Vortex, Greg Skomal and Joe Romeiro chart the migratory patterns of three species of shark   great whites, makos and porbeagles   that travel north each summer to the beaches of southern New England.In this pun-tastic special narrated by Mr Big himself (Chris Noth),  and the City: New York will examine the reappearance of seals in New York s harbors, and whether that means great whites will emerge too.Craig O Connell takes a deep dive into the waters of Madagascar, where both great whites and tiger sharks have long been absent; but one, tagged on the coasts of South Africa, traveled 1,500 miles to the island, which could be the next haven for great whites.																																																			