hen Theresa May fires the Brexit starting gun by triggering article 50, she will start a process that could dramatically reshape almost every aspect of British life   from our economy, laws, and place in the world to our natural environment. The difficult choices our politicians make in just a few years could change the face of Britain for generations to come.Even before the tough bargaining with the EU and other countries start in earnest, another, more domestic negotiation process will get underway   the constitutional power struggle between parliament and government over who will have the final say on the momentous Brexit decisions. A lot will ride on the outcome of this tug of war, and that includes the fate of many vital environmental safeguards we take for granted. Over four decades of EU membership, Britain has acquired one of the most formidable bodies of environmental law in the world. Whether it s air pollution, water quality, or toxic chemicals, many of the environmental safeguards protecting our health and our environment are rooted in EU law. It is EU law that has chivvied a recalcitrant government into , improving , and banning . The habitats and birds directives have provided stronger protection for threatened wildlife than any UK law. And it is the EU air quality laws that have allowed campaigners to hold ministers to account for their failure to in the courts. All these vital protections   the fruits of decades of negotiations, campaigning, and political work   are about to come under an . Along with thousands of other EU laws, ministers say that most environmental legislation will be transposed en bloc into domestic law by the  . Although this might sound like an unalloyed piece of good news, it isn t.Ministers have  that only two-thirds of environmental regulations can be adopted as they are, leaving the remaining third in dangerous limbo. But even the laws that are directly transferred will be put on much shakier ground. The institutions that guarantee their enforcement, such as the European court of justice and the commission, will have no jurisdiction in Britain. So who will hold the government to account? have suggested Theresa May favours the option of the UK remaining a member of EU regulatory agencies, but what powers these watchdogs will retain and what laws they will be able to enforce is not clear.An even greater and more immediate danger lurks in the great repeal bill. Ministers have been talking about including a so-called  in the bill that would give them the power to change primary legislation without a vote in parliament. In this scenario, an all-powerful executive will be able to cherry-pick which environmental legislation they want to keep while ditching the rest with a stroke of the pen. The vital laws protecting our health and our environment from air pollution, noxious chemicals, and destructive industries will be left hostage to the whims of the government and business lobbies of the day. Clues to how these powers may be used already abound. Michael Gove has for the habitat directive to be scrapped. The environment minister George Eustice is on record describing it as  . And a leading Brexiter like Jacob Rees-Mogg has Britain could slash environmental and safety regulations on imported products, adopting, for example, emissions standards that are  good enough for India . Industry lobbies on both sides of the Atlantic have already sniffed an opportunity to do away with regulations that put consumers before corporate profits. A  recently told Radio 4 s Today programme that any US-UK trade deal would be dependent on Britain allowing imports of US foods that have so far been banned, from chlorine-washed chicken to hormone-infused beef. Leading car makers in the US have already lobbied Trump for  standards and got what they wanted. It s hard to see why they wouldn t attempt to do the same in Britain once the backstop of EU air quality rules has fallen away. Closer to home, the owner of British Gas, Centrica,  the government to drop EU targets on renewable energy unless they can be used as a bargaining chip during Brexit negotiations. Since any deployment of wind and solar energy by communities and individual households is a threat to the big six s stranglehold, Centrica is exploiting Brexit to pull a fast one on the competition and, ultimately, on consumers too.This is just the beginning. The deeper we wade into the quagmire of Brexit negotiations, the more pressure industry lobbies are going to put on our politicians to sacrifice crucial environmental safeguards on the altar of low-standard trade deals. This is why our elected representatives have a crucial role to play in defending the values Britain holds dear.A majority of people have voted for Brexit, but they didn t vote for a more polluted or less green Britain. This government has no mandate to tamper with the environmental safeguards protecting our parks, our beaches, and our air. If the vague promise about  taking back control  is to be at least partially fulfilled, the crucial decisions about the future of our environment cannot be made over a handshake between ministers and corporate lobbyists. Any changes to this vital legislation must be done in a democratic way   through a parliamentary vote and the thorough public scrutiny that accompanies it. A truly sovereign parliament during Brexit will be the last line of defence for our green and pleasant land.																																																			