he small Cessna plane banks steeply and J Henry Fair of Charleston, South Carolina, hangs his camera out of the small window to film straight down the chimneys of the Lafarge Tarmac cement plant in Aberthaw, south .  Man, look at the gunk coming out of that guy. He s burning rubber as fuel! That s really environmental, huh?  he shouts as the 25-knot, force six wind whips off the sea and tosses the light aircraft around. Fair asks the pilot to circle the plant three more times. From a few hundred feet above its great sheds and kilns it is clear that the 100-year-old works burn coal, waste and car tyres to make the cement. The wind takes the wisps of white smoke from the chimneys low over the surrounding farmland and beaches. Fair, who documents pollution and waste in the world s industrial sites, has come to Britain to conduct an aerial toxic tour of south Wales. Having set off from Swindon in Wiltshire and passed over solar farms, unspoilt valleys, ancient villages and some of the richest farmland in Europe, he approaches over the Bristol Channel. What he sees delights and shocks him. Wales is bathed in a low autumn sunlight revealing a vivid industrial landscape of derelict steel works, demolished factories, old smokestacks, sewage and waste plants, holding tanks, pipelines and chimneys. A few wind turbines rotate, but from 1,700 ft, this bastion of the world s industrial revolution appears a calm picture of emptiness and past enterprise. Docks with no ships, factories with no workers, derelict plant and chimneys without smoke, he says.  What impresses [on] me is the sadness at the disappearance of all those jobs. The industry there has just been shipped overseas,  he says.Instead it is the patterns and vivid colours of the contamination and detritus left by the industrial age which excites him.  I am obsessed by them,  he says, as the Cessna passes over bright green, brown and orange settling ponds, tanks and jet-black coal heaps being flattened by minute yellow machines. Fair calls himself an artist and environmental activist.  I am appalled by the subject I photograph but I love what I see in old industry. I want to know how much mercury or carbon is being emitted from a factory, but I also have the artists s horror of what I am seeing.   What does this do?  he asks as the Cessna passes over the Dow Corning chemical works near Barry. The plant, which has been operating for 100 years, makes silicone products used in nearly every industrial process. But it is also making more than 100 people redundant.  Nothing here is natural. Look, they are bringing coal ash from the power plant and they re growing crops right next to it. That s just brilliant,  he says sardonically. The Cessna turns 180 degrees to head for the nearby Aberthaw coal power plant, which the  had repeatedly violated pollution controls for nitrogen oxide emissions.  Let s get those waste stacks. They don t look like they re doing anything nice,  says Fair.He spots the power plant s offshore cooling water intakes and outflows that are creating abstract, expressionist patterns in the mudflats and sea.  That tells me they are dumping hot water into the bay which is going to affect the marine life. What about its waste coal ash? Where does all that go?  he asks.Back on the ground, Fair says his environmental images must be both meaningful and beautiful to work.  Art that is beautiful but not meaningful is decoration. Art that is meaningful without beauty is pedantic. I want to make art that tells a story to regular people; art which hopefully gives them an insight into our world. What we buy doesn t come with information about the hidden costs: the air that is fouled, the water contaminated, the habitat destroyed, or the workers exploited. But these are real costs that must inevitably be paid, a burden that ultimately falls on all of us. US environmentalist Bill McKibben says:  Think of these images as a surveillance camera for the planet, recording the biggest crimes against nature we ve ever imagined. Images like these will be the standards around which we muster.  But Fair says he seeks to combine horror and beauty.  What I see in these scarred landscapes is both beauty and the complete disregard for nature. 																																																			