he road climbs and thins with each turn. Where it reaches a little fist of cottages it doesn t stop but instead, strangely, has its way blocked from waist height up by low branches. A dead road, leading to the old reservoir. I walk a footpath bordered by stone walls, then over a stile and here it is, a sweep of miniature country. A rumpled slope, trees fat with summer, a little pond catching the sky. August dew sits on everything, and early sun lights every drop to a shimmer. I see rabbits, molehills, every bush twitching with life.I live less than a mile from here and would come to this meadow more, but for one thing. The air is awash with it, a roar that wavers only slightly, and never below uncomfortable. It s rush hour now, so maybe this is as bad as it gets. But it never goes away.Wothorpe-on-the-Hill is next to the A1. You don t see it. But you hear it, constantly. A raised road, four lanes, trucks, cars: it s tragic. A plague on this little place, under siege by a maddening local noise. I walk by the wall, past ancient woodworm-pitted stumps, towards , built in 1615, abandoned in 1700 and now a turreted husk, like a fantasy folly, or Du Maurier s Manderley. It s an impassive witness to the change before it: how much quieter this scene must have been. In The Silence Afterwards the Norwegian poet Rolf Jacobsen wrote of That title might need inverting to The Silence Before to resonate here.Noise might, should, be the next big environmental thing: it s blamed for learning disorders, hypertension, insomnia, dementia. Tranquillity is shrinking. People are forgetting what silence feels like. Back in the meadow. I walk to the little pond: it sits under a circle of trees, within a sea of nettles. I notice the nettles are covered in little snails. Snails are deaf. But vibrations they can feel. A breeze passes, quivers the dew-hung trees, and the whole area awakens with a cool, organic crackle-static as the water falls onto the nettles. Just for a second, I hear just this.																																																			