he footpath to , through hay meadows long since cut, follows the south bank of the Wear. Today the water was shallow and clear. But after heavy rain in the upper dale the river becomes a torrent and it has eroded small terraces so stony and steep they are never cut at hay time. These places are refuges for a late-summer flora of , harebells as blue as the sky overhead.It s a place to sit among the flowers on an afternoon when summer seems to be slipping past too quickly.I watched a tiny , one of a number of species that are hard to tell apart, struggling to land on the harebell blooms as they bent and recoiled on their slender stems in the blustery wind. The bee finally gripped a dangling bell, crawled under the lip and disappeared inside.When I tilted the flower upwards I could see the pollinator, busy collecting nectar at the base of the bell. This was an old flower with withered stamens, so the bee seemed to be freeloading. To figure out how the harebell exploits its visitors   mostly small flies and solitary bees   in return for a sugary reward, I split open a younger flower. The bud revealed a long central , like the clapper of a bell, tipped with a tightly closed female stigma. The male stamens, arranged around it, had already burst and coated the hairy central style with a layer of white pollen. Any small bee struggling through the narrow entrance of a newly opened bell, as it swayed in the wind, could hardly avoid collecting pollen.Back inside the old flower, the furrow bee was beginning to scale that central column and clamber out over the stigma, which, in mature flowers like this, splits into three lobes that curve backwards, like a grappling hook, partially blocking the exit. Any bee carrying pollen would surely have smeared it on that receptive surface on its way in or out.The architecture of the harebell flowers choreographs the visitors  movements, making pollination likely, but the capricious wind that made the bells dance and the insects struggle to go in and out played its part too.																																																			