he federal government recently released the showcasing the numerous opportunities for businesses to be involved in conservation. This is great for the bush, but what aboutthe wildlife that calls the city home?With more than 80% of Australia s population living in cities, it might not feel like there s much room for nature. Yet scientists in the field of urban ecology and conservation, such as myself, aim to shine a light on our city-dwelling fauna, and develop new ways for people and wildlife to live side by side.A stroll through any Australian city proves there s no need to go bush to get in touch with native animals. From the brush turkeys of Brisbane to the powerful owls of Sydney, many species find ways to survive in the urban jungle. In fact, many of our rarest animals live in urban environments. Research under way at the  reveals that just over 100 of Australia s federally listedendangered animals live in cities or towns. For example, Canberra hosts the grassland earless dragon, striped legless lizard and painted honeyeater, while Melbourne is home to southern brown bandicoots, growling grass frogs and visiting swift parrots. Of the 70 species prioritised in the recent prospectus, around 25 have been recorded in or around urban areas.This means that not only are urban areas great places to engage with native wildlife but they can play an important role in the fight against the extinction of these species. And increasingly, scientists and conservationists are working with city planners,  and even  to develop  to sharing urban areas with wildlife.The first step is to realize that spaces for urban conservation don t have to be large. Even a solitary gum tree can be a lifeline for native wildlife. Researchers from the  found that large old trees are critical feeding and nesting sites for a huge range of animals in urban areas. Once lost, these trees take hundreds of years to replace, so it s vital to protect those that are left.Sydney s  are a great example of this. Sometimes large gum trees can drop branches, posing a safety risk to those using the space underneath. Instead of removing the whole tree, many councils now choose to prune the dangerous branches and retain the rest for wildlife. Artificial hollows can be cut in, and nesting boxes added to recreate nesting spaces for native birds and mammals. Creative solutions like this help to balance conservation goals with the local community concerns. Individuals can help wildlife by creating new habitats and resources in their local communities. When the natural nesting hollows formed in old trees are scarce, urban nest box programs are a salvation for , and  . The Hume city council is encouraging  to provide havens for native stingless bees, while Ku-ring-gai council has a  program, to help residents convert unused swimming pools into homes for native fish, frogs and turtles. Urban ponds and water sources provide much-needed water for other animals during droughts and heatwaves. Councils and business can also help by making the most of urban spaces for wildlife. Research shows that urban animals are resourceful, and often not too discerning. They can be found along roadsides, rubbish tips, abandoned lots and cemeteries, even nesting in skyscrapers. For example the  outside Melbourne is a hotspot for birdwatchers, who have recorded more than 270 species of native birds visiting the waters. Managing these spaces to protect species will be a big part of helping urban wildlife survive.The recent revolution in green roofs and green walls opens up even more avenues for wildlife in the city. They  and are becoming more common in buildings across the world. These features are not just fantastic for wildlife but serve as green oases for humans too, breathing new life into built environments. City living can be dangerous for wildlife; cars, windows, pets, powerlines and pesticides can take their toll. But new structures and innovations can help curb the carnage. Road-crossing structures such as wildlife bridges or underpasses are a good way to help animals cross roads safely. Crossings are built at sites where wildlife naturally try to cross the road, along with fences to help animals find the structure s entrance. Perhaps the most impressive structure in Australia is Brisbane s , which allows birds, mammals and reptiles to cross between two urban parklands without tangling with peak-hour traffic. Councils and road agencies are increasingly recognising the benefits of these structures, both for wildlife conservation and human safety. The actions we take to encourage wildlife into our towns have benefits for human residents. Increasing nature in cities is good for our own , can , and even .Urban conservation represents a great opportunity, both for people and native wildlife. Whether it s installing a nest box in a backyard, a bee hotel in a cafe garden, or a wildlife crossing on a local road, urban conservation empowers people to take positive action in their own homes, workplaces and communities. Taken individually, these actions may all seem small. But the combined effect can make a huge difference to the ability of native animals to survive in cities and towns.																																																			