hanks to this government s intransigence about tackling air pollution, the battle to improve the quality of the air we breathe has played out not in the political arena, but in the courts. Time after time, the government has found itself on the wrong side of the law: first for its failure to meet legally binding European targets on harmful nitrogen dioxide?emissions; then, for failing to produce an adequate plan to address these.?Its latest delaying tactic has been to claim it could not meet this week s court-imposed deadline for publishing a new draft plan, because of the  purdah  convention ruling out new government announcements in the run-up to an election.And so it has fallen to judges yet again to take the government to task over its failure to act. Today s ruling took apart the government s case: its own purdah guidance sets out  where public health is at risk. As the judge pointed out, why would it be better to have parties debating what ought to be in a draft air pollution plan, when it could be debating what is actually in it?The government s real motivations are political, not procedural. Having delayed taking meaningful action for seven years, it is clearly nervous about proposing any measures that hit drivers of diesel cars during?an election campaign. Its political cowardice is astounding   and pointless. Public attitudes have shifted in recent years, and London s Labour mayor, , has made tackling air pollution one of his top priorities. The government is unlikely to face opposition to tougher action from any of its mainstream political opponents, and is enjoying double-digit poll leads.Yet it continues to shirk its responsibilities to the nation s public health. Today s air pollution may be less visible than the smogs that settled over our cities in the 1950s, but it is a deadly killer, responsible for upwards of 40,000 premature deaths per year. London breached its annual air pollution limit just , and legal limits?were easily surpassed in the . The effects are particularly pernicious for children whose lungs are still developing.The human cost makes the government s latest attempts to delay a disgrace. The two-month extension it was seeking for its final plan could have meant thousands of avoidable premature deaths, all in service of not wanting to jeopardise a marginal number of votes in an election that it is on course to win handsomely. It s a sick calculus.The good news is that air pollution is easier to tackle than other environmental and public health challenges. Unlike climate change, it is relatively localised: city-scale actions to address pollution levels can have a marked effect on their air quality. Much (though by no means all) of the problem comes down to emissions from diesel vehicles and, to a greater extent than in other areas of public health, consumers are highly responsive to financial incentives. The irony is that we know this because many have switched from petrol to diesel as a result of sweeteners introduced back when diesel was thought to be more environmentally friendly due to its lower carbon emissions.But heavy lobbying from the car industry in Westminster and Brussels has staved off firm action. European emissions tests for diesel cars have been far easier to manipulate than in the US; as a result, 97% of modern diesel cars . Behind the scenes, the British government has tried to . It s a familiar story: the government similarly watered down plans to tackle childhood obesity in the face of special pleading from the food and drink industry.The high court ruling puts the ball back in the government s court. It should choose to accept it, rather than appeal. But either way, it has been exposed as a government willing to privilege marginal political advantage and?the lobbying efforts of big business over the health of the nation.																																																			