Foxes loitering around rubbish bins and pigeons roosting in train stations: urban animals are widely regarded as the dregs of the natural world.However, according to biologist Simon Watt, cities represent some of the world s hotspots for  and behavioural adaptation. Speaking at the Cheltenham science festival, Watt, who is founder of the Ugly Animal Preservation Society, said:  The ice caps are melting, the rainforest is shrinking, . If we re going to look for evolutionary shifts right now in our world, the place to look is cities. In his talk, Watt cited a host of examples of how the urban environment is prompting new genetic shifts and unexpected behaviours. A proportion of black cap warblers, which used to migrate to Morocco or southern Spain, have shifted their route to Britain where urban heat islands and garden bird feeders allow them to survive at more northerly latitudes than was previously possible. The ones that come to Britain are starting to get shorter wings   better for manoeuvrability, worse for long flights   and longer beaks, which are better to get through the wee bars of garden bird feeders, although worse for things like fruits and berries. In Australia, the mating croak of the male pobblebonk frog has been steadily rising in pitch, an adaptation that means it can still attract females in the presence of the background rumble of motorway traffic. Pobblebonks never hear their parents, so it s an evolutionary shift,  said Watt. Outside the urban setting the frogs with the deepest croak tend to be most attractive to females.  They still would be the most attractive males if they could be heard, but it s become an advantage to have a falsetto,  he added.  Barry White is out, Justin Bieber is in.  have also changed their vocalisations, although this appears to be acclimatisation rather than evolution.  In general we can say that birds in cities have a couple of things in common. They tend to sing at a higher pitch, they tend to use fewer notes and they tend to sing faster,  he said.  They have their own urban music. This happens across all the species, they sing at different times   at night because they ve got street lights. They are not quite sure when it s bedtime. It does mean that some of these birds are stressed out. A weed, called    which looks like a delicate version of the dandelion, is evolving to release higher numbers of heavy seeds and fewer light floaty ones (the plants produce a mixture) because of its concrete-bound existence.  If you re in concrete, there s no point in distributing your seeds widely, you re better to just land your seeds in the patch next to you,  said Watt.There is even a species, sometimes known as the London Underground mosquito, which has adapted from a southern mosquito variety to survive in the warm underground spaces of northern cities.Watt said the types of species that are able to thrive in urban environments tend to be adaptable omnivores, relatively intelligent and scavengers by nature. In other words they re rather a lot like us,  he said. He added that the changes taking place in the urban environment were sometimes neglected, even by the scientific community.  We don t have to go to Borneo to watch evolution in action. 																																																			