Four underground  coalmines operated by Glencore and Anglo American could be prosecuted or even shut down for failing to properly monitor dust levels.Anthony Lynham, the state s mines minister, has named and shamed the companies in parliament, warning that they risked severe penalties for failing to meet monitoring obligations designed to protect workers from dust-related diseases such as black lung.The mines inspectorate could demand full, independent safety audits or opt to prosecute, or even close, Glencore s Oaky North and Oaky No 1 mines and Anglo s Moranbah North and Grosvenor sites, he said. Based on our knowledge of diseases caused by coal dust, it is my view that any failure to comply reflects a gross disregard of an operator s obligations to protect their workforce,  Lynham told parliament on Thursday night. said it was  very disappointed  in itself, and its dust monitoring and reporting failures had been rectified and an investigation launched.The company briefed workers at its two mines on Friday morning, with further briefings expected after a meeting between the company and the inspectorate. We will work with the Queensland mines inspectorate to ensure this won t happen again,  the company said.Anglo has been asked for comment.But the Labor MP Jo-Ann Miller accused her own government of failing to act promptly on a report about coal workers  pneumoconiosis, or black lung.Miller, who chairs the coal workers pneumoconiosis select committee that produced the report, said there was no excuse for the government s dithering. The committee tabled its  report on 29 May 2017, outlining 68 recommendations to address the systematic failures which have led to the re-identification of CWP in at least 23 workers in Queensland in recent times,  she said . This government has still not responded to the report   we call on the government to act immediately and adopt the black lung report. The Construction, Forestry,  and Energy Union says immediate action must be taken against the companies. The rediscovery of black lung has sent shudders through the coal industry,  a spokesman, Stephen Smyth, told the ABC.  And here we have coal companies Glencore and Anglo at these mines who continue to obviously expose workers to high levels of dust.  We need the inspectorate, the regulator, to come in and take some immediate action to ensure they are in compliance. 																																																			