For Beijing s residents, this winter brought a sense of deja vu: flights grounded by smog, air quality  red alerts  and pronouncements on the city s latest efforts to fight air pollution.In January and February the average amount of PM2.5   fine particles small enough to pass from the lungs to other organs   was  95 micrograms per cubic metre: up 70% from the same period in 2016.Walking the capital s streets it doesn t feel, or smell, like the  that China declared in 2014 is being won.Yet environmental academics say data taken over a wider time scale shows air quality is improving over the longer-term   partly thanks to tougher action on polluting business, particularly factories and construction sites.In February the Beijing government announced a year on year 23% hike to its environmental protection and energy efficiency budget, taking it to 33.8bn yuan (?4bn). Of this, more than half is earmarked for improving air quality.The city s environmental protection bureau handed out fines totalling 183m yuan (?21.5m) for pollution law violations in 2015, . Beijing s municipal government has also stepped up spot checks on polluters, with 170 companies on a watch list requiring them to have daily inspections, according to  at the end of last year.The ramp-up in part reflects the greater teeth given to environment officials by China s updated environmental protection law,  for the first time in a quarter of a century in 2014.The law gives them power to detain company bosses who don t complete environmental impact assessments and removes limits on fines for firms that breach pollution quotas. Earlier this month, Chinese media  the detention of a Beijing-based heating company worker for allowing pollutants to be released from his workplace. The penalties are harsh and implementation [in Beijing] isn t as hard to do as it is elsewhere,  says Angel Hsu, assistant professor of environmental studies at Yale-NUS College. Away from the capital, and the heart of state power, officials are more likely to prioritise local development over national policy directives on the environment, she says.The capital s pollution figures support the view that the business crackdowns, along with measures such as removing coal-fired power plants from the city and , are driving up air quality.In 2016 the average density of PM2.5 was around 73 micrograms per cubic metre in Beijing, according to municipal government figures  by state media. That marked a 9.9% improvement on 2015 PM2.5 figures, themselves down on 2014, officials said.Convincing Beijingers that they are breathing cleaner air is not easy, however, not least because official Chinese statistics on air pollution should be . Beijing s  airpocalypse  year of 2013, which saw the  (the top end of the scale is supposed to be 500), caused a spike in public awareness of the issue   reinforced by the recent red alerts. Improvement is hard to see when your kids are walking around in smog,  says Anthony Liu, a former Beijing resident now working as assistant professor at Indiana University Bloomington s School of Environmental and Public Affairs.  But, actually, over the past decade Beijing pollution has cleaned up a lot [...] things are turning around slowly, like a battleship. While all of us would all like to see clear skies in Beijing immediately, it s important to be patient as  tightens up its environmental policy,  adds Liu.Beijing s mayor Cai Qi has  for average PM2.5 levels of 60 micrograms per cubic metre for the year, down from 2016 s figure of around 73. However, that PM2.5 figure needs to fall below 50 micrograms for Beijing s air quality to be recognised as  good  by the ministry of environmental protection. The pollution level will gradually improve, as the overall average figures show,  insists Dabo Guan, professor in climate change economics at the University of East Anglia, who believes Beijing will be one of the first large Chinese cities to tackle air pollution thoroughly. However, Guan believes Beijing s eventual success may come at a cost for other parts of China as they take up more of the industrial strain.  Other places in China will suffer air pollution much longer than Beijing does,  he says.  I always say to my wife:  If you want to go back to China one day, it s Beijing . 																																																			