Every year, 18 million hectares of tree cover      is cut down, releasing millions of tons of carbon emissions into the atmosphere. In just 40 years, possibly , the equivalent of Europe, has gone.Trees soak up carbon dioxide so when they are gone the gas lingers in the atmosphere, leading to temperature rises and climate change. Deforestation almost rivals emissions from the    12% of global greenhouse gas emissions each year come from felled trees. Yet, the importance of forest conservation to fighting climate change is underestimated.There is some hope   at the , more than 50 developing countries who share the world s tropical forests all promised to crack down on illegal forestry, replant trees and restore degraded forest lands.Indonesia, for example, which has the fastest deforestation rate of any single country in the world and is the sixth largest carbon emitter, promised to cut its emissions by 29% by ending illegal deforestation and restoring  If all countries stick to their pledges, carbon emissions could be reduced by  worldwide.But the conservation of forests is easier said then done   partly as many of the countries affected are some of the poorest. So where will the money to protect forests come from and how do donors ensure it s spent ethically? Who should lead conservation efforts? And how can indigenous forest communities ensure that they have a say in any negotiations over their home?Tim focuses on sustainable forest management and a transition towards a green economy. Previously he worked for the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity. At CIFOR, Peter leads a team of more than 200 scientists and staff operating in over 40 countries.Co-author of Why Forests? Why Now? Former director general at the Center for International Forestry Research.Shyla focuses on identifying nature-based solutions to climate change. Previously, she s worked with the Adaptation Fund, the UNFCCC, and the UNDP. Researcher, trade analyst, campaigner; Mary s publications delve into the World Trade Organisation, climate change, and industrial livestock production, a key driver of deforestation.Tep leads a natural resources conservation NGO in Cambodia.Per runs a government funded programme dedicated to reducing tropical deforestation, with an annual budget of 3bn Norwegian kroner (?282m).A forester with experience in government, private sector and civil society organisations.Cristiane works with Greenpeace campaigns and other initiatives related to zero deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon.At WRI Brazil, Rachel has established programs on climate change, sustainable cities, forests and sustainable finance. 																																																			