ense, dirty air laced with grease best describes the atmosphere of most Lagos streets. Drive from one corner of this great west African city to another and in no time you will find surfaces lightly dusted, like a soft sprinkling of icing on cakes. Under the half moons of fingernails, thick grime settles.It s a scene taken as typically African: polluted, bedraggled, unhealthy. Yet this has only ever been made possible by the exploitation of Africa s people   the bedrock of European development. Today the exploitation continues. This week five west African countries, Nigeria included,  to end the practice of European oil companies and traders exporting  African quality  diesel. Dirty fuel  has earned the name because it is imported diesel with sulphur levels as high as 3,000 parts per million when the European maximum is 10ppm. To be clear,  African quality  fuel, is fuel not fit for European humans. Racism has always been about the sanctioning of exploitation. How else can one justify one nation siphoning the wealth of another thousands of miles away if not by believing  those people  are inferior and thus  deserving  of servitude?For commodities traders  (which a year ago  more than half a billion pounds in bonuses), and Vitol (whose chief executive is ), their defence is a simple one: there s nothing illegal about the practice. Yet in 2013, nearly 20,000 people  alone. It takes a breathtaking level of moral bankruptcy to happily profit from an . We do well to remember that corporations are not intangible entities but are made up of people capable of ignoring the human costs of their bid for greater wealth.This can t be rationalised as something only the dispossessed of the world suffer   those  others  who aren t  us , but who are all the same clamouring to escape brutalising poverty, and who don t understand that  we , in Europe, are full. No: to the corporations happy to exploit us all, impoverished immigrant or impoverished northerner, it s much of a muchness. We exist in solidarity as canon fodder in a clamour to increase capital. The fight is not with each other, but with the Goliaths of global capital.Powerful corporations such as Google, Starbucks and Amazon, with their  have taught us that for them, profit is king. It means responsibility to the communities that serve them are, at best, secondary concerns. Ones that always defer to the more pressing need of acquisition. This is empire building wholly colonial in spirit. This is capitalism as we currently practice it.Built into our economic DNA is the notion that inequality is a necessary evil, that there is nothing to be done about it. Put another way, wealth creates poverty. Colonialism has, perhaps, best equipped those  others  from ex-colonies with an intimate understanding of what corporations, given free reign, will continue to do. Wealth will always be funneled upwards to make the rich more so while the rest are made poorer. This is how it was when corporations like the  were able to avoid doing what was just by plundering another nation for the benefit of the few. It is how multinationals continue to behave.Today, victims of corporate dispossession are global, although to some extent this has always been the case. Though the UK s working class were themselves exploited, they were nevertheless protected from the many cruelties of conquest. The dynamics remain much the same, with global capital able to exploit the 99% wherever they are with exceptional mercilessness reserved for those living in the ex-colonial outposts.The combined wealth of the  the total of the poorest fifth. When work doesn t pay, as more than  intimately understand, you are simply a thing to be exploited. Workers at places like  don t require an explainer on precarity or job insecurity when it forms the fabric of their working lives.Often we talk of  the markets , companies made up of people capable of making different choices, as a supreme power. Much like the God of the Old Testament, they are in need of sacrificial burnt offerings in order to have mercy on us all. Yet markets that create working conditions   even in the UK   reminiscent of gulags, , don t sound much like benevolent deities.The poor have been paraded as social pariahs angered by extreme inequality whose righteous rage has brought Brexit upon us. Never mind that this is a lazy . Or that gross inequality like ours can only continue if we create a constantly fluctuating vision of the other to rally against, together. Whatever our class backgrounds, it is after all, foundational to the national make up.Things fall apart if, to quote Yeats, the centre cannot hold. Shared hate is nothing if not communal and therefore cohesive by nature. Sometimes it is the young, others, the very poor. For so long it has been immigrants: the Irish,  bogus  asylum seekers, eastern Europeans, south Asians or Caribbeans and Africans. Busily hating the other gives us no time to demand  . Powerful corporations like Trafigura and Vitol or Amazon and Google can do better. The fight is to make them see so.																																																			