Don t get too excited by recent   that Sadiq Khan is buying no more New Routemaster buses for London s fleet. After all, he first informed the world that he has dumped the  Boris Bus  , confirming a manifesto promise he had made loud and often during the . Don t expect them to , either. Of more topical interest is which London public transport fares  in the New Year and , a matter for further coverage later this week when the mayor s budgets come under . But surpassing even this is for sheer excitement is Transport for London s , 250 pages of fascinating facts that weren t published eight months ago. Let s luxuriate in just a few.The big transport trend in London since 2000, when the mayoralty and TfL were created, has been the large fall in private car use and the large rise in that of public transport. The report tells us that in 2015/16, 43% of  households had no access to a car, that the total volume of road traffic in 2015 was 10% lower than in 2000, and that this century has seen the  mode share  of public transport rise from 28% to 37% while that of motorised private transport has fallen from 47% to 36%. Walking, the other big way of getting around the capital, has retained a 24% share. The shift away from cars towards buses, rail and Underground is projected to continue, albeit at a slower rate. Public transport s share is expected to reach 40% by 2041 and that of cars (and other private motor vehicles) to fall to 30%, with walking inching up to 25%.It might give little comfort to those who rely on the , but for most users of different types of train travel in the metropolis, things have got bigger and better. Underground capacity and reliability continued to go up in 2015/16, Overground use rose by 32% and the report even remarks that  general reliability of National Rail has improved  over time, though it politely observes that  available capacity into central London during the weekday morning peak remains a major constraint . Customer satisfaction measurements, including for the Docklands Light Railway (DLR), are all significantly higher than they were five years ago. Underground, surface rail and DLR combined accounted for 24% of all individual journey stages in 2015 (see pie chart on ) with the former two quintessential to travel between outer and central London: some 84% of all complete trips are by rail or Underground, says the report. The report says that people used a bus to get from A to B an estimated 3.9 million times every week in 2015. Yet this reflected the first fall in bus ridership by that measure since 2006, which was the only previous one since 1995 (see ). Service reliability has suffered lately too. These as yet small yet worrying developments are described as being  in line with a rise in general traffic congestion , which is explored in chapter 6. TfL s  congestion pie  representation () has slices for accidents (9%), road and street works (7%) and  spillages and crane operations  (5%), but by far the biggest portion is labelled simply  excess traffic  (75%). It puts the financial cost of congestion in 2015 on the  TfL is responsible for at ?1.3b, up 8% compared with 2014. The bus, London s cheapest form of public transport and the one used by the widest range of Londoners, especially in Inner London, is another congestion casualty.Take a look at , which introduces an  an over-arching framework for the design and management of London s streets  aimed at facilitating active travel, reducing car dependency and tackling poor air quality. Ten  healthy streets  outcomes are set out and the role the transport system can play in improving peoples  health is explained. Sadly, the report s statistics show that too few of us get around the city in ways that involve exercise, even if we are young. Although there s lots of walking, not enough of it is of sufficient duration to do us much good. The amount of cycling has more than doubled this century, nearly trebling in central London, but its mode share for both complete trips and individual journey stages across Greater London as a whole was just 2% in 2015, the same figure as for the previous ten years. It is hoped that new and future cycling provision will help push that number up to 6% by 2041. There s a lot more on transport s environmental performance in Chapter 8. The above are but little samples of the treasures to be found in the cave of wonders that is Travel in London report number nine. Read the whole thing  (pdf). And don t tell me I don t know how to show you a good time. 																																																			