David Cameron s No 10 policy chief warned him a year ago that he was  exposed on Heathrow  because the government did not have an answer to its impact on air quality, an internal Downing Street note has revealed.The memo was written by Camilla Cavendish, a former Downing Street adviser, who was scathing about the first draft of a government air quality plan from the department of the then environment secretary, Liz Truss. There are three problems with Liz s clean air plan as currently written,  the note from September 2015 says.  First it is still very much a draft which quotes initiatives that are likely to be abolished   Second it both overclaims and underwhelms. It says we want the cleanest air in the world but does not even begin to tackle the fundamental question of how we might help people to shift away from diesel cars. Third, it leaves us exposed on Heathrow where we don t yet have an answer on air quality.  This week in the high court, ClientEarth, an environmental law group, has argued that the government s plan to clean up levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) fails to adhere to the law.Theresa May is preparing to make a , with all the signs pointing to a choice of a third runway at Heathrow. She came under fire on Tuesday for  on expansion for another year. Sadiq Khan, the  mayor, who backs expansion at Gatwick, said:  The government s decision to yet again delay deciding where to build a new runway will cause unnecessary uncertainty for British businesses already struggling with Brexit. Now more than ever, businesses need certainty and stability in order to make investment decisions and to keep jobs in Britain. Instead they are getting dither and delay. Sources at No 10 rebutted the suggestion that there had been any delay to airport expansion plans, saying there was no change in the timetable and a decision on developing either Heathrow or Gatwick would be taken next week.Cameron put off the decision on Heathrow in early December last year, saying the government would undertake more work on the environmental impact of airport expansion. But the government published its national air quality plan  with little reference to Heathrow and has not expanded on it publicly since then.Cavendish, who is now a Conservative peer, said on Wednesday night:  Now this is in the public domain I have to say that I believe successive governments have failed the public on air quality. Too many people in Whitehall and parliament think they can play it down because it s invisible.  But the scientific evidence shows that air pollution, especially particulates from diesel vehicles, is a growing threat to health. I continue to believe that government policy underwhelms and overclaims, including on Heathrow where expansion will increase pollution. Air pollution causes 50,000 early deaths and ?27.5bn in costs every year, according to the government s own estimates, and was called a   by MPs in April.Observers said Cavendish s briefing to Cameron showed the government knew Heathrow expansion was problematic for compliance on air quality, and that the handful of  were not enough to tackle pollution from diesel cars.Caroline Lucas, the co-leader of the Green party and MP for Brighton Pavilion, said:  This revelation confirms what many of us have been saying for months: Heathrow expansion cannot go ahead if we re serious about protecting the environment. Not only would expansion mean additional emissions from aircraft, but it s highly likely that there would be more fumes from road traffic blighting the local area too. The government has clearly buried this inconvenient memo in the hope of railroading this section through, irrespective of its legality and the impact on local people. Simon Birkett of the Clean Air in London campaign said:  Whether it s a big or little impact, it doesn t matter if it makes it [compliance] worse. This briefing shows us what I call free-market anarchists like George Osborne   people who say the car is king, and want no regulation on anything   have a disregard for human health. The Davies commission on airport expansion said that a bigger Heathrow would mean extra traffic on Bath Road near the airport, leaving it with the highest concentrations of NO2 in the Greater London area. That  would delay compliance with the directive and hence would not be deliverable within the legal framework , the commission s final report said.A Heathrow source said:  Heathrow accepted the conditions of the Davies commission in May this year. The airports commission were always clear there were no issues with air quality. However, if a judicial review or another legal case is brought, government has to have done its own research into everything the Davies commission has said. It s not enough to say the airports commission came to a particular conclusion.  So they have to look into the air quality plans themselves. However, if Theresa May approves Heathrow next week, it will have done those investigations by now. They will not go ahead with expansion, anywhere, if they had found air quality limits were going to be in breach, because it s a legal requirement. The airport s chief executive, John Holland-Kaye,  that a study by Cambridge University into air pollution had bolstered Heathrow s case.The university s Prof Rod Jones, who has been using sensors to monitor air pollution around the airport, said his research showed the air quality problem at Heathrow was due to road traffic, not planes, and that cleaner car engines being mandated by law would bring NO2 levels down below what they are now. We would expect   the traffic-related signature [of NO2 emissions] to drop below what it is today   even though there may be more traffic,  said Jones, whose study is due to be published in about a month s time. A government spokesman said:  The government is firmly committed to improving the UK s air quality and cutting harmful emissions. That s why we have committed more than ?2bn since 2011 to increase the uptake of ultra-low-emissions vehicles, support greener transport schemes and set out a national plan to tackle pollution in our towns and cities. We cannot comment on ongoing legal proceedings. 																																																			