d.here s nothing like the prospectof an authoritarian strongman to make intellectuals	 hippies	 and	 above all	 hippie intellectuals appear hopelessly ineffectual. Compared to organising protests or setting up a recurring donation to the 	 talk of deep time or of effacing the false ontological divide between humanity and nature risks seeming rather fatuous.In November	 the week after the election of Donald Trump	 Morton flew to New York to confab with the Nasa group about what a new Golden Record might contain. He was devastated by Trump s victory	 but not necessarily surprised that America had opted for what he called the political equivalent of a diet of vicodin and cinnamon buns. In his hotel room	 he had a  private weeping session  while reading the David Malouf novel Fly Away Peter. Later	 he went for a bite of sushi   in which mercury from coal-fired power plants	 smelting metals and burning trash tends to accumulate	    and got swept up in a large crowd.  I was in that first protest	 man	  he told me.  I was in that first fucking anti-Trump protest at Trump Tower.  He quipped 	 and to the Nasa meeting	 that he wanted to put the president-elect on the next Voyager probe.I wondered how potent Morton s animistic politics would seem under the new dispensation. The day after his talk at the Serpentine in the autumn	 I had eaten lunch with him	 the performance artist Kathelin Gray and John Polk Allen	 AKA Johnny Dolphin	 the prime mover behind 	 a planetary microcosm built inside what is essentially a gigantic test tube in the Arizona desert. The conversation	 in the course of meandering from places on the globe with special energy (the Himalayas	 ) to the  lunatic asylum for clever people  that is Oxford	 turned toward solidarity with other species. I ve always called other things  people 	  Gray said.  My Native American friends are very happy about that. How could you  call them people?  Morton responded.Gray told a story of snakes she had known. Morton	 evidently moved	 put his hand on his chest.  You had  friends called Snakey?  he said.  That s wonderful. This had all sounded a bit ludicrous	 even before Trump got elected. But somewhere in these schmaltzy attempts to express their affinity with other creatures was a genuine desire to move towards the sort of radically pluralist politics that Morton advocates.  Don t hide under a rock	 for heaven s sake	  Morton had said to me at one point.  Go out in the street and start making any and as many kinds of political affiliations with as many kinds of beings	 human or otherwise	 that you possibly can	 with a view to creating a more non-violent and just	 for everybody	 ecological world.  It was hard to argue with those aims. We can t debate with other species	 but the Anthropocene makes it clear that we need to include their wellbeing among our goals.Morton s own political emphasis seemed to change after the election. Wind-powered house parties and interspecies reading groups were out. Now	 the whole point	 he said	 was  to freakin  crush these fascists over and over and over again .Still	 the Anthropocene isn t going away just because a venal troll in a baggy suit is sitting in the White House. The build-up of carbon in the air and nitrogen in the soil; the acidification of the oceans and the desertification of once-fertile lands; the counterpane of radioactive isotopes (from nuclear testing) and plastic (from consumer packaging) that blankets the globe; the species after species extinguished   the list of dramatic changes to the planet goes on. The politics of today may be more urgent than ever	 but the need for a politics of tomorrow hasn t gone away.A few days after the election	 Morton regained his sense of humour and began to laugh about the president-elect	  this little orange guy with a huge	 yellow pile of Cheetos on his head . Yes	 Morton was going to spend the next months	 or however long it took	 fighting fascists on campus and wherever else he could be heard	 but he was also continuing to proclaim his unusual view of ecology. Let s put some house music on	  Morton said at the end of one of our longest conversations.  Even if it s true that we really are screwed	 let s not spend the rest of our lives on this planet telling ourselves how screwed we are. What should we do instead? Shake hands with a hedgehog and disco.  Follow the Long Read on Twitter at 	" or sign up to the long read weekly email ."""