As we well know,  that . It s only a matter of time before they rise from the dead and threaten to eat our brains. And so here we go again   American conservatives are denying the very existence of global warming.The claim is based on what can charitably be described as a white paper, written by fossil fuel-funded contrarians  and  along with James Wallace III. Two months ago, D Aleo and Wallace published  on the same website with fellow contrarian ; both papers aimed to undermine the EPA s Endangerment Finding. The Endangerment Finding concluded that the scientific research clearly shows that carbon pollution endangers public health and welfare via climate change impacts, and therefore according to the US Supreme Court, the . Conservatives who benefit from the fossil fuel status quo and oppose all climate policies have .Both papers are rife with flaws because they start from a desired conclusion   that the science underpinning Endangerment Finding is somehow wrong   and work backwards trying to support it. In , the contrarians try to undermine the accuracy of the global surface temperature record, which has been . They don t bother trying to hide their bias   the paper refers to  Climate Alarmists  and speaks of invalidating the Endangerment Finding. The paper itself has little scientific content. Using charts taken from climate denier blogs, the authors claim that every temperature record adjustment since the 1980s has been in the warming direction, which is simply false. As Zeke Hausfather pointed out, referencing work by Nick Stokes, roughly half of the adjustments have resulted in cooling and half in warming. Moreover, the net adjustment to the raw data actually r the long-term global warming trend:Additionally, a peer-reviewed study last year led by Hausfather  by showing that they bring the data in closer agreement with that from pristinely located temperature stations. The white paper also claims that the adjustments remove a  cyclical pattern  that appeared more clearly in early versions of the temperature record. As Hausfather told me, that s simply because we now have more data that better represent the planet as a whole:And of course  as well. Ice is melting, species are migrating, spring is arriving earlier, sea levels are rising, oceans are warming, humidity is rising, and so on. The contrarian white paper also references satellite estimates of the temperature of Earth s atmosphere   estimates that one group recently found are .The white paper authors admit that some adjustments to the raw data are necessary (for example, to correct for changes in instrumentation technology, time of observation, moving station locations, and so on), and they don t dispute the accuracy or necessity of any of the adjustments that climate scientists have made. Basically, because they don t like the end result of global warming, the authors assert that the adjustments must somehow be wrong, but fail to support that assertion with any real evidence. It s not worth the paper it s printed on.Predictably, a number of conservative media outlets like the Daily Caller and Climate Depot picked up on the white paper. The Daily Caller even went as far as to call it a  peer-reviewed study.  In a sense that s true   a number of other fossil fuel-funded contrarian scientists who are technically the authors  peers signed onto the paper. But of course that s really , not peer review; the white paper was not published in a peer-reviewed journal because it obviously would not withstand scrutiny by scientific experts.It s telling that these contrarian white paper efforts to undermine the established climate science supporting the EPA Endangerment Finding are so poor. They re forced to resort to conspiracy theories, implying that climate scientists from around the world are all falsifying data, adding a global warming signal to the temperature record that we also happen to see in nature and in satellites. As Hausfather put it:If this is the best contrarians can do, it s no wonder that  challenging the established climate science underpinning the EPA Endangerment Finding is a losing effort.																																																			