As the Senate launches an inquiry into the national security ramifications of climate change, a  has warned global warming will cause increasingly regular and severe humanitarian crises across the Asia-Pacific., written by the , forecasts climate change could potentially displace tens of millions from swamped cities, drive fragile states to failure, cause intractable political instability, and spark military conflict.Report co-author Ian Dunlop argues Australia s political and corporate leaders, by refusing to accept the need for urgent climate action now, are  putting the Australian community in extreme danger . Global warming will drive increasingly severe humanitarian crises, forced migration, political instability and conflict. The Asia Pacific region, including Australia, is considered to be  disaster alley  where some of the worst impacts will be experienced,  the report, released this morning, says. Australia s political, bureaucratic and corporate leaders are abrogating their fiduciary responsibilities to safeguard the people and their future wellbeing. They are ill-prepared for the real risks of climate change at home and abroad. On Friday, the Senate passed a motion for an , and Australia s readiness to mitigate and respond to climate-related crises in our region.Dunlop, a former chairman of the Australian Coal Association and chief executive of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, told the Guardian the security impacts of climate change were not far-distant future concerns, but happening now.The ongoing Syrian civil war   which has killed 450,000 and forced an estimated 5.5 million people to flee the country over six years of conflict    exacerbated by climate change, that left millions without food or livelihoods. Once these effects start, then they unfold right the way through the system as an accelerant,  Dunlop said.  Natural disasters lead to social pressures, to increasing conflicts, competing claims for scarce resources. These fuel extremist positions, which could be religious, tribal, or political, which can lead to mass migrations. We are going to see a lot of people start moving, in our region especially, and to think we stop that by finessing things like  stop the boats , is frankly naive. Dunlop said the global nature of the climate change challenge should force countries to cooperate. Climate change has to become seen as a reason for far greater levels of global cooperation than we ve seen before. If we don t see it that way, then we re going to be in big trouble. This problem is bigger than any of us, it s bigger than any nation state, any political party. We re going to be steamrolled by this stuff unless we take serious action now. The security implications of climate change have been identified by thinktanks, governments, and militaries across the world.A decade ago,  that the security threat posed by climate change had been largely ignored and seriously underestimated.In 2013 the commander of US Pacific Command, Admiral Samuel Locklear, said the greatest long-term threat in the Asia-Pacific was not military ambitions of another state, or the threat of nuclear weapons, but climate change. In 2015, the US Department of Defense commissioned a report, examining the security implications of disrupted climate, and current secretary of defense, Jim Mattis, has said climate change is a clear and current threat to US troops. Australia s  said climate change would contribute to state fragility, which it identified as one of the six key drivers that will  shape the development of Australia s security environment to 2035 . Climate change will be a major challenge for countries in Australia s immediate region.  will see higher temperatures, increased sea-level rise and will increase the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. These effects will exacerbate the challenges of population growth and environmental degradation, and will contribute to food shortages and undermine economic development. Instability in our immediate region could have strategic consequences for Australia should it lead to increasing influence by actors from outside the region with interests inimical to ours. It is crucial that Australia help support the development of national resilience in the region to reduce the likelihood of instability. The Senate inquiry into the national security threats of climate change will report in December. But the issue remains politically charged.Greens senator Scott Ludlam, in putting the motion before the Senate said the government had failed to apprehend the global security risk posed by climate change. As one of the highest per-capita emitters on the planet, Australia must play a constructive role as our region responds to climate change. The government won t listen to the scientists, and it won t listen to the renewable energy sector. Maybe it will listen to defence and security experts and the personnel on the frontline. But assistant minister to the prime minister, Senator James McGrath, said the inquiry was unnecessary.He told the Senate a defence climate security adviser had been established within the office of the vice chief of the defence force group. As well, an environmental planning and advisory cell has been established within headquarters joint operations command, and defence is represented at the government s .																																																			