As the London Assembly transport committee  what Sadiq Khan and Transport for London (TfL) can do to reduce rising levels of road traffic congestion in London, bear in mind that the price of gridlock is not only paid in frustration and pollution. A  (pdf) of vehicle delays on Greater London s roads during 2014-15, published in May, estimated the financial cost of congestion by this measure to be an astonishing ?5.5bn a year.Let s wrap some context around that. London s economic output is reckoned by the  to be about ?364bn a year. The Centre for Economics and Business Research thinktank has put the  at ?10m each. Others think it s higher, but even the Federation of Small Businesses  huge figure of  is dwarfed by the cost of congestion. In other words, congestion is doing major damage to the city s economy. And the frustration and pollution are adding to that cost because they make London less agreeable to function in. Speaking to the transport committee , Grant Davis, chairman of the  spoke of more and more his customers getting out of his taxi before reaching their destinations because his cab has simply stopped moving. Demand for the bus service has started to decline after years of increase, coinciding with slower speeds and worse reliability.Construction works, the proliferation of private hire vehicles and delivery vans, the halving of the congestion charge zone and a long-term loss of road space have all  to the growth of the problem over the past two years following a long period of general stability during which London has seen a big  modal shift  away from all forms of private transport, principally cars, towards public transport. Transport for London s  records that in 2000 34% of  journey stages  - the components of an excursion from one place to another - were undertaken on public transport compared with 43% by private vehicles. By 2014, the public transport figure had risen to 45% and the private transport figure had fallen to 32%.The pattern for  trips  - entire excursions within London - has followed a similar trend. Just 28% were taken by public transport in 2000 and 47% by private vehicle. But by 2014 both measures were running at 37%. Nearly all other journey stages and trips were done on foot, plus 2% by bicycle (see ). Car ownership too has been falling, in marked contrast with the rest of England and Wales. So has the volume of motor vehicle traffic in London as a whole according to both Department for Transport estimates of distances travelled in them and TfL s own traffic flow data (). And yet, for all this progress, the plague of road congestion is now getting worse. The committee s  continues. It s call for evidence is . You can submit your thoughts on the issue via  until 16 September. 																																																			