art of the charm of lapwings is that they look silly, a friend says, and I can surmise what she means. It s the ridiculous crest, the unnecessary breadth of wing, which gives them so much more aerial lift and loop than they require, and then there s the zaniness of their spring display. Nor should we leave out  that pass for song and which remind me of a dog s squeaky play bone wheezing in and out of tune as the animal chews.Yet  are too ingrained in a lifetime of memory for me to think them only silly. They are the first sounds I awakened to as a naturalist in Derbyshire, whose nests we came upon in the grass like a revelation, and whose blotched-brown Easter eggs seemed a kind of miracle.Lapwing song was the omnipresent soundtrack of all my childhood springs. Now it has gone from behind our family home, as have 65% of all Britain s lapwings since the 1970s. Their inexorable leave-taking has been central, throughout my adult life as an environmentalist, to that wider sense of wildlife loss, . Today as I watch 30 males song-flighting across the river, over the RSPB s , I can forget briefly that lapwing is classified as near-threatened with global extinction. Males yo-yo everywhere you look, the squeezed-bone song arcing through the milky light of March and filling the whole valley with joy. Funny, really, to imagine, since all that lapwings are is processed invertebrates, that this whole thing   the wing-thrum, the creaking cries, the blazing black-and-white rhyming of their wings - is just soil turned to song and dance.I forget in which book, but the author WH Hudson suggests that beauty in nature is more important than beauty in art because, while we can go on filling galleries and museums with our works, once the life has gone from a place or species it is gone forever. All I know is that, as I get older, I know with increased certainty that no book or even music triggers the same perennial flower of feeling as lapwings in display. 																																																			