After receiving misinformation from the anti-vaccine movement, including its founder Andrew Wakefield, immunization rates plummeted in a community of Somali immigrants in Minnesota, . It s a disturbing trend on the rise in America that shows the importance of immunization and the dangerous power of misinformation. published in PLOS One by John Cook, Stephan Lewandowsky, and Ullrich Ecker tests the power of inoculation; not against disease, but against the sort of misinformation that created the conditions leading to Minnesota measles outbreak.  suggests that exposing people to the tricks used to spread misinformation can equip them with the tools to recognize and reject such bogus claims.The study focused specifically on misinformation about climate change. The scientists wanted to determine if inoculation could boost peoples  resistance to , and efforts to cast doubt on .The two issues are connected   in climate stories, journalists will often present arguments by climate scientists and climate deniers with equal weight, creating the perception of a 50/50 split when in reality, 97% of experts are on one side, as elegantly illustrated by John Oliver in this clip with over 7 million views from his HBO program Last Week Tonight :In one experiment, before showing people a media story with this sort of climate false balance, the study authors first provided a group with information about the 97% expert consensus, and delivered an  inoculation  explaining the misleading effects of false balance media coverage.They found that in the group that was only exposed to the false balance story, average perceived consensus, acceptance of human-caused global warming, trust in climate scientists, and support for climate policy all fell. When subjects were first inoculated against false balance and told about the expert consensus, these factors instead all increased. The authors concluded:In a second experiment, they exposed participants to consensus misinformation via , explained in the video below, and again inoculated one group against the misinformationThe inoculation this time consisted of a mixture of text and a figure of a tobacco ad with the text  20,679 Physicians say  Luckies are less irritating  to show participants a similar previous example of the fake experts technique employed in the Oregon Petition. As in the first experiment, exposure to only the misinformation decreased participant perception of the expert consensus, acceptance of human-caused global warming, and support for climate policies. However, exposure to the inoculation offset the effects of the misinformation.I asked lead author John Cook how these findings can be implemented in the real world where misinformation about subjects like climate science and vaccines is pervasive.In short, the more we explain , the more people will become inoculated against them. When we re exposed to examples of people using cherrypicking or fake experts or false balance to mislead the public, it becomes easier to recognize those techniques, and we re less likely to fall for them in the future. Teaching people to recognize those techniques is a primary goal of  mentioned by Cook.When anti-vaxxer Andrew Wakefield was confronted with the consequences of misinforming the Somali immigrants in Minnesota, he told a Washington Post reporter   One wonders whether we ll be hearing those words from climate deniers in the coming years.Hopefully it won t come to that, if we can avoid the worst consequences of human-caused climate change. Inoculating people against the techniques used by climate deniers and misinformers can help us achieve that goal.																																																			