A nine-year-old girl has filed a lawsuit against the Indian government for failing to take action on climate change, warning that young people will pay the price for the country s inaction. In the petition filed with the National Green Tribunal, a special court for environment-related cases, Ridhima Pandey said the government had failed to implement its environment laws.  As a young person [Ridhima] is part of a class that amongst all Indians is most vulnerable to changes in climate, yet are not part of the decision making process,  the 52-page petition reads. It calls on the tribunal to direct the government  to take effective, science-based action to reduce and minimise the adverse impacts of climate change ., Ridhima said:  My government has failed to take steps to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are causing extreme climate conditions. This will impact both me and future generations.  My country has huge potential to reduce the use of fossil fuels, and because of the government s inaction I approached the National Green Tribunal. India s Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Central  Control Board have been asked to respond within two weeks. India has four of the . Together, India and China accounted for more than half the total number of global deaths attributable to air pollution in 2015, according to a recent study.Greenpeace  in January estimating that nearly 1.2 million Indians die each year owing to high concentrations of airborne pollutants such as dust, mould spores, arsenic, lead, nickel and the carcinogen chromium.At the time, India s environment minister , adding:  There is no conclusive data available in the country to establish direct correlation-ship of death exclusively with air pollution.  Despite several laws to protect India s forests, clean up its rivers and improve air quality, critics are concerned that implementation is poor and economic growth often takes precedence over the environment. Flash floods and landslides in the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand, where Ridhima lives,  in 2013. The devastation affected Ridhima, the daughter of an environmental activist, according to Rahul Choudhary, a lawyer representing her.  For someone so young, she is very aware of the issue of climate change and she is very concerned about how it will impact her in future,  he said.  She wanted to do something that can have a meaningful effect, and we suggested she could file a petition against the government.  is taking some action on air quality. As a signatory to the Paris agreement on climate change, it is committed to ensuring that at least 40% of its electricity is generated from non-fossil-fuel sources by 2030. In her petition, Ridhima asks the court to order the government to assess industrial projects for climate-related issues, prepare a  carbon budget  to limit carbon dioxide emissions, and create a national climate recovery plan.  That a young girl is doing so much to draw the government s attention is something. We hope the case puts some pressure on the government to act,  said Choudhary.																																																			