A month into his presidency,  (43% approve, 51% disapprove). Congress has a minus-50 approval rating, and the Republican Party has a minus-14 favorability rating. All are facing widespread protests, marches, and public resistance. Hundreds of concerned constituents have been  held by Republican Congressmen, like this one with Tom McClintock (R-CA):His constituents asked McClintock about the current hot-button issues: repealing Obamacare, the border wall, the Muslim ban, and climate change.The first three topics have strong support from the Republican base, but they re unpopular among most of the rest of Americans. That s why Trump s approval is held afloat by Republican support (about 85% approve), while only 35% of independents and fewer than 10% of  view him favorably. In fact, they view these policies so unfavorably that there are constant mass protests. And then there s this:Trump and the Republican Party need an issue and a policy that has strong support among all Americans.  and a carbon tax fit the bill perfectly. have shown that Trump voters support taking action to address climate change.It s also important to note that  in 2016; 28% voted for Hillary Clinton, and 40% didn t vote at all. In , Larry Hamilton at the University of New Hampshire found that 48% of Trump voters think renewable energy should be a higher priority, as do 63 100% from the other groups, including 84% of non-voters. Donald Trump is the president of all Americans, and Americans want climate action.A group of Republican elder statesmen in the Climate Leadership Council recently visited the White House to pitch a revenue-neutral carbon tax policy.  for liberals and conservatives alike   a true bipartisan compromise. It would tax carbon pollution, which would cause fuel and energy prices to rise, but 100% of the revenue would be returned to taxpayers via a periodic (monthly or quarterly) rebate check to offset those costs. And .It s a tough sell for Republicans in Congress, who rely upon campaign donations from the fossil fuel industry. However, President Trump isn t beholden to fossil fuel interests. Additionally, many Republican policymakers want to take action to protect the climate. They understand the science, the risks that climate change poses to future generations, and frankly . But they re . Were Trump to support a carbon tax, it would provide cover for congressional Republicans to follow his lead.  in the state of Washington in the 2016 election. Those behind the proposition insulted environmental justice groups rather than making the case that . Generally speaking, liberals prefer to spend tax revenue on programs to help people and accelerate the transition to a green economy. But low-income households spend a bigger chunk of their income on fuel and energy, so a carbon tax disproportionately impacts them. However, if the revenue is rebated equally to all taxpayers - as the Climate Leadership Council proposed - poorer Americans actually benefit from the carbon tax.Congressional Democrats are on board with this policy, as are a number of Congressional Republicans, at least in private meetings. And a majority of Americans   including Trump voters   want the government to take action to address climate change. Even though many of those conservatives are unconvinced by climate science, they re willing to tax and/or regulate carbon pollution . Even .Congressional Republicans  hate government regulations, including EPA carbon pollution regulations. But  won t make their voters happy, and won t be able to break through a Senate filibuster in any case.  will undoubtedly do what he can to hamper EPA efforts to curb carbon pollution, but he likely won t be able to accomplish much more than handcuffing the EPA until a new administration is elected and he s replaced. However, we can t afford four to eight years of delayed climate action, so replacing those hampered EPA regulations with a robust revenue-neutral, small government, free market carbon tax would be a good deal for both the left and the right.President Trump could make it happen by voicing his support for the policy. He would go down in history as a hero   the president who was able to broker a tremendous deal between Republicans and Democrats to protect the climate for future generations during a time of extreme partisanship. It would be a shocking move that most Americans   including most    would love and support.Alternatively, Trump could continue supporting policies that are only favored by conservative voters, which would keep his approval ratings in the red. Mass protests would continue, his administration would take action to worsen the climate for future generations, and Trump would go down in history as an unpopular, shortsighted president who left America and the planet a much worse place.The question is, with people like Steve Bannon, Scott Pruitt, and   whispering in his ear, will Donald Trump be able to recognize and make this great deal?																																																			