A global chemical company has been fined for poor operational practices that killed one of its employees and seriously hurt another when they were overcome by a toxic vapour cloud.Cristal Pigment UK Ltd was sentenced at Hull Crown Court on 8 November for two incidents that occurred within less than two years at Europe s largest titanium dioxide plant at Stallingborough in north-east Lincolnshire.The company, which was formerly known as Millennium Inorganic Chemicals, is part of the Cristal Group, a leading international producer of titanium chemicals. Titanium dioxide is widely used as a cheap white pigment but the European Chemicals Agency recently consulted on plans to declare it a .The court heard that, in the early hours of 5 March 2010, there was a build-up of titanium tetrachloride   an intermediate in the process to produce titanium oxide - within a vessel. The chemical came into contact with water creating a violent reaction, which ruptured the vessel. The liquid came into contact with the air creating a large toxic vapour cloud.One worker was showered with the corrosive liquid and . His colleague was covered by the vapour cloud, surviving his injuries but with irreversible lung damage.The vapour cloud poured out from the site, blew out across the river Humber and closed down shipping lanes for several hours, until the incident was brought under control by the Humberside Fire and Rescue Service.An investigation by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) found the company had deviated from normal operating procedures, which led to the dangerous build-up of the chemical. Parts of the plant and its procedures were poorly designed and the company had not established robust safety management procedures and systems of work to assess and control risk and to ensure these were actually followed.The following year, on 27 July 2011, there was another uncontrolled release of a toxic vapour during the cleaning of a redundant vessel.The vessel, which is normally connected to the chemical production plant, was being replaced. The old vessel was removed and stored, for around three-years, with several tonnes of residual titanium tetrachloride.The HSE s investigation found that Cristal had poorly managed the design and installation of fabricated plates to seal the vessel before carrying out the cleaning process. The plates were incompatible, incorrectly designed and used inappropriate sealants that could not contain the gas created during the procedure, releasing a toxic vapour cloud.Cristal Pigment UK pleaded guilty to breaching sections 2(1) and 3(1) of the  for the 2010 incident and also regulation 4 of the  for the 2011 incident.It was fined ?2.4m for the first case and ?600,000 for the second, with ?37,868 costs.After the hearing, HSE inspector Brian Fotheringham noted that, if the wind had been blowing in the opposite direction the 2010 incident  could also have caused a local disaster . However, the company still did not learn lessons from the 2010 incident and had another significant release of the same toxic gas just over a year later,  he said.  This case must act as a reminder to the industry that there can be no room for complacency when dealing with such dangerous chemicals. When asked why the prosecution had taken so long to conclude, the HSE noted that the incident very complicated and required input from a large number of specialist disciplines. The judge himself had said that  no criticism can, or should, be made for the delay. The investigation has been a mammoth task for the HSE. Rob Sarracini, Cristal s Stallingborough site director, said the company was  extremely sorry for the failings that took place  which had a significant impact on many of the plant s employees. Our plant in Stallingborough is a highly complex and specialized manufacturing process. Immediately following the incident, we worked closely with the HSE, cooperating fully. Following both the HSE s and our own investigations, it was found that there were deficiencies and we accept responsibility for these failings. We have taken the learnings and made significant improvements in many areas of our site. 																																																			