A bit of a quieter week for    except towards the end, when he did his best to push the planet into a watery grave.The US president stepped off the plane  last weekend with his aides refusing to comment on a Washington Post  that his son-in-law Jared Kushner, a key adviser, discussed setting up a secret back channel for conversations between the Trump transition team and the Kremlin. Trump s last act with his fellow world leaders at the G7 in Sicily had been to  from all of them to commit to remaining in the Paris climate change deal. He would make up his mind in the coming week, he tweeted, easing back into his old habits after a few days of more disciplined social media messaging and uncharacteristically bookish tweets such as:  I look forward to reading the  232 analysis of steel and aluminum- to be released in June. The floodgates really opened on Sunday, with a series of messages hailing the victory of the Montana Republican charged with assaulting a Guardian reporter and hitting out at leaks from his administration and the  fake news media . As usual, Trump was particularly scathing about the use of anonymous sources.On Memorial Day, , the president condemned a racist attack in Portland, Oregon, that , calling it  unacceptable . He also issued a statement saying he had  total confidence  in the beleaguered Kushner, as newspaper articles  the young   was falling from the president s favour. Meanwhile German chancellor Angela Merkel  that her experience dealing with Trump at the G7 suggested the US might no longer be a completely reliable partner.Not one to shy away from a fight, Trump responded to Merkel with a tweet :  We have a MASSIVE trade deficit with Germany, plus they pay FAR LESS than they should on NATO & military.  Press spokesman Sean Spicer described their relationship, somewhat ambiguously, as  fairly unbelievable , but claimed:  They get along very well. He has a lot of respect for her.  Spicer was also forced to answer questions about his own position, after the  reignited speculation that a major staff shake-up was imminent.In , Trump s longtime attorney, Michael Cohen, rejected a request for documents from the House intelligence committee, as reports claimed that former national security adviser  was reportedly now prepared to provide documents to the committee s Senate counterpart. Trump also retweeted a  that reflected relatively well on Kushner, clearly feeling it merited making an exception to his usual rule about stories based on anonymous sources.Early on Wednesday morning, Trump sent the :  Despite the constant negative press covfefe , delighting the internet. You might agree with  that the president  meant to write  coverage . That s it. It s not that deep and not that funny.  But at least one man disagreed   Spicer. Trump s spokesman said the next day that  the president and a small group of people know exactly what he meant.  So there you have it. At the same press briefing, Spicer  the White House would no longer answer questions about the ongoing investigations into Donald Trump s alleged links to Russia   instead referring them to Trump s personal lawyer . And CNN  with comedian Kathy Griffin after she appeared in an art video holding a likeness of the president s severed head.Things got serious again on Thursday when Trump ended days of speculation by announcing he was pulling the US out of the Paris climate accord. Criticism was swift and brutal both  and , with Barack Obama issuing a rare statement saying the administration had joined  .  I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris,  Trump said. (Pittsburgh .) The president also  to move the US embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. And  that Brexit leader Nigel Farage was a  person of interest  in the US counter-intelligence investigation looking into possible collusion between the Kremlin and Trump s presidential campaign. In other Russia news, the Senate intelligence committee  that former FBI director James Comey will give evidence in public and in private on 8 June.EU leaders  the Paris deal was not up for renegotiation and pledged instead to bypass Washington to work with US business leaders and state governors to implement the accord s commitments. It was reported that special counsel Robert Mueller had expanded his investigation into Trump and Russia to take in Flynn s foreign lobbying. Vladimir Putin chipped in to back up Trump s frequent contention that the various Russia investigations had been flammed up to distract people from the fact that Trump won the 2016 election fair and square.  In all honesty, I myself sometimes thought that the guy was going too far, but it turned out he was right: he found an approach to those groups of the population and those groups of voters he counted on, and they came and voted for him,  . Unfortunately for Trump, that probably won t be the last word on the matter.																																																			