, Trump s deputy national security adviser, KT McFarland, gave him  warning of a coming ice age. The Photoshopped magazine cover circulated around the internet several years ago, but was . Four years later, McFarland put the fake document in Trump s hands, and he reportedly  quickly got lathered up about the media s hypocrisy   Staff chased down the truth and intervened before Trump tweeted or talked publicly about it .This particular myth   that most climate scientists in the 1970s were warning of an impending ice age   is wrong on three separate levels. First and most obviously, , not cooling.Second, there were some climate scientists whose research suggested that we could trigger an ice age   if human sulfur pollution were to quadruple. But that didn t happen. In addition to blocking sunlight (and hence having a cooling effect), sulfur pollution causes other problems like acid rain. So various governments (including America s) enacted Clean Air Acts to regulate that pollution (quite like the way we should be responding to carbon pollution s dangerous impacts). Since then, , while carbon pollution has gone way up. The climate scientists weren t wrong   the scenario they warned could have triggered an ice age didn t happen because we took action to prevent it. Third, although we ve established climate scientists weren t wrong in the 1970s, even if they had been, so what? Science advances, and we understand how the climate works today much better than we did 40 years ago, as illustrated in this funny video by Adam Levy:To be blunt, this is a really dumb myth, and it says a lot that about the state of America s government that the president was suckered into believing it.McFarland, second in command to  before he was ousted by scandal,  before Trump hired her. In fact, Fox appears to be where she developed the connections to Trump that led to her appointment in his administration. McFarland hadn t worked in government since the 1980s, and . As :Ironically, Fox News  Jon Scott interviewed Politico s Shane Goldmacher about the fake magazine cover story,   The president getting some fake news every once in a while, apparently, from his own staffers.  That fake news of course came from a former Fox News analyst and concerned . In fact, a 2013 study found that . Seven Democrats on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology  expressing concern that he is frequently being fooled by this sort of fake news. The committee members suggested:Indeed, most key government science and technology positions in the Trump administration . Recently, most members of one of EPA s major scientific review boards were either  or , with one saying  I can t be a prop to bad science.  Scott Pruitt s main qualification to lead the EPA was his 14 lawsuits against the agency. Rick Perry didn t even know what the Department of Energy did when Trump nominated him for the job. Trump s reported pick for chief scientist at the Department of Agriculture , and of course is a climate denier. The hits just don t stop coming.Of course, 61% of American voters thought Donald Trump was unqualified to be president (). We re now seeing the consequences of an executive branch full of unqualified people who have approximately zero regard for science or facts. ,  you get the politicians you deserve.  Apparently we deserve political leaders who are utterly clueless about the most important existential threat the world faces today.																																																			