, , and  each broke the global temperature record.  led by climate scientist Michael Mann just published in Geophysical Research Letters used climate model simulations to examine the odds that these records would have been set in a world with and without human-caused global warming. In model simulations without a human climate influence, the authors concluded:To put those numbers in perspective, you have about a one-in-3,000 (0.03%)  in your lifetime. You have about as much chance of being struck by lightning  as 2014, 2015, and 2016 each being as hot as they were due solely to natural effects. That means denying human-caused global warming is like planning to be struck by lightning three years in a row. Perhaps a tinfoil hat will help.On the other hand, in model simulations accounting for human-caused global warming, the odds of these events goes up substantially:It s unusual to have three consecutive record-breaking years even with the aid of global warming, but without the human climate influence, it simply wouldn t happen. These findings tie in to the , which climate scientists sent to the New York Times for fear that the Trump administration would censor or suppress the document. Previous drafts of the report were available to the public, although few take notice before the final version is published. Climate scientists worried that the administration would tamper with that final version. Among the report s conclusions:This conclusion is consistent with the latest IPCC report, which likewise . These conclusions are denied by many members of the Trump administration. For example, Trump s EPA administrator :Similarly, when Trump s Department of Energy secretary Rick Perry was confronted with the 100% human contribution to global warming since 1951, he responded by saying And of course the president himself , and didn t mention science once in his shameful speech declaring his intent to . Across the pond,  recently  that global temperatures have declined during the past 10 years. That, of course, is patently absurd considering the record-breaking temperatures we ve experienced over the past 3+ years. In fact, the short-term warming trend over the past 10 years is than the long-term trend. that the  made the  ignorant and irresponsible  decision to host a climate science denier.It s understandable that climate scientists would worry about the possibility that the Trump administration would censor their findings. Not only has the administration denied this politically-inconvenient science, but the Republican Party has a history of censoring climate science research.  just a decade ago. And the Trump administration has been  and .At the American Geophysical Union conference (the largest annual meeting of climate scientists) last December, climate scientists expressed fears about this type of censorship. . The scientists pledged to have learned the lessons of the Bush administration censorship, and not to allow the Trump administration to do the same. That s why the National Climate Assessment report was sent to the New York Times. This time, climate scientists are fighting back against censorship of their science.Unfortunately, scientific censorship is no longer our main concern. It was an effective strategy over a decade ago, when most people remained blissfully unaware of the threats posed by human-caused global warming. But since then, the issue has become politicized. As Trump and Pruitt and Perry have illustrated, denying basic climate science has become the political norm among Republican Party leaders. Simply put, it s possible that the Trump administration would have censored or suppressed the National Climate Assessment report, but even an uncensored report doesn t threaten them. The document mostly reiterates the findings of previous reports, like the last IPCC assessment. Political party leaders would just add it to the stack of documents and evidence whose inconvenient findings they deny.That s the problem we now face. It s not one that physical scientists can solve   at least not without the aid of social science research. We ve had enough evidence telling us about the need to act on climate change for decades. More evidence won t convince people; we now have to figure out the best ways to communicate it, as climate scientists like Katharine Hayhoe are learning:In the meantime, we re left wondering how many lightning strikes it will take to shock the climate science denial out of our system. We ve been struck by three in a row, yet the denial is still going strong.																																																			