 was in fine fettle last week. The last of its population of puffins had departed for the winter a few weeks earlier, while its thousands of young gannets were still being cared for by their parents on the chalk cliffs of the East Yorkshire nature site. For good measure, kittiwakes, cormorants and fulmars were also bathing in the sunshine.It was a comforting sight for any birdwatcher but this benign picture was in stark contrast to many other bird reserves in Britain. Our populations of seabirds   arctic skuas, arctic terns and kittiwakes   are in freefall. And, in some cases, the numbers are dire. For reasons that are not entirely clear   though they are almost certainly concerned with climate change    has not suffered from the precipitous declines in seabird numbers that we see elsewhere,  said Euan Dunn, a principal policy officer for the RSPB. Our seabird colonies, especially those in northern Scotland, are withering away. At the same time, the government has displayed a complete dereliction of duty in failing to properly track this calamity. In particular, it has ignored calls to carry out its statutory duty to organise a comprehensive national census of our seabirds, even though one is long overdue. That would at least reveal the extent of the crisis and help highlight possible solutions. One example of the devastating losses is found on , one of the most significant seabird colonies in the North Atlantic. On this rocky outpost, there has been a 99% reduction in kittiwake nests since 1990. Last year only one pair bred in all the monitored sites on the island, and that single chick died. Yet in the middle of the last century these distinctive dark-eyed gulls thrived across the island. In addition, the kittiwake colony at Marwick Head on Orkney was once a noisy, bustling home to thousands of kittiwakes but is today deserted.Similarly, Fair Isle puffins, with their large pale cheeks and brightly-coloured bills, have dropped in numbers from 20,000 to 10,000 over the past 30 years, while on Orkney and Shetland guillemots have also halved in number with several colonies disappearing. Fulmars, arctic skuas and arctic terns have also suffered massive losses. Added together, these statistics indicate that, in the past 25 years, Scotland may have lost almost half its breeding seabird population.A catastrophe is unfolding. The UK is an internationally important site for seabirds, is home to most of the world s Manx shearwaters, gannets and great skuas, and has significant colonies of many other key seabirds such as the Atlantic puffin. Yet the government has resolutely declined to fund a new national census in the wake of those organised in 1970, 1985 and 2000 and which it is supposed to instigate every 15 years. It s a lamentable failure of government not to have given its statutory nature conservation agencies the resources necessary to carry out a coordinated comprehensive national census of our seabird colonies,  said Dunn.When the first national census  known as  at the time   was completed in 1970, populations of seabirds appeared fairly healthy, as did those that were counted for the second national census in 1989. However, the census of 2000 produced worrying evidence that declines were taking place.  Things have got much worse since then. We are supposed to have a national census every 15 years but now that is slipping towards 20 years   just at a time when populations of so many seabirds are clearly in freefall,  said Dunn. We desperately need to have an accurate assessment of what is going on, a census that will pinpoint the varying fortunes of all our colonies and which will tell us where we may need to bolster particular sites and build resilience. We may need to establish marine protected areas offshore or take action to rid an island of rats. But until we have the whole picture, which only a comprehensive census can provide, we cannot work out where to deploy our resources. As to the possible causes of the dramatic decline in seabird populations, most experts point to the waters around the  thanks to global warming caused by rising greenhouse gas emissions. In the wake of this change, seas have also seen a dramatic loss of zooplankton while, further up the food chain, sand eels   a critically important source of food for many birds   have disappeared from many parts of the Atlantic and the North Sea. As a result, seabirds such as terns and kittiwakes   which only take sand eels from the sea surface   are doing far worse than birds such as razorbills, which take fish from greater depths. The trouble is that climate change is only going to worsen,  said Dunn.  We desperately need to do something to give our seabirds a fighting chance of survival in future. The very least we can expect to achieve that is a proper census every 15 years. 																																																			