 but of course he had other things in mind, as we now know. I d read his books, he was my great hero, and I knew he had this fantastic , dedicated to conservation. But for some reason I thought the whole of Jersey was Gerry s zoo, so I was rather surprised when I discovered it was a normal place, with villages and a town, and people who live here.I came through the iron gates that have a dodo symbol on them, and swept down this beautiful avenue of lime trees to the gravel forecourt of the 18th-century granite manor house. I only discovered afterwards that those gates are only opened for Princess Anne. which is very green, but that s where the resemblance ends. I loved Jersey from the beginning: out here in Trinity, in the north-east of the island, it is pastoral and idyllic   just what I like. I have a living room with windows that look out on this lush green valley with bright pink flamingos wandering around. What can be better than that? So many of our animals are either free-ranging or as close to it as possible, and they all look so contented.  on the south-east coast of the island, with the fabulous  at the top.Gerry loved it: we liked going down there to eat at a restaurant called . and didn t relish all the adoration. Even in the confines of the zoo, he didn t go out unless he had to. Instead, he hosted parties at home. He was a great cook. We get fabulous fresh produce   I buy my fish from the  by the harbour. You ve got the long , and there is Big Vern s at the end, which is a great place to eat. And there is now a , an important place for migrant stopovers. because that really gives you an idea of what it was like in Jersey during the Nazi occupation. because we were reliant on gate money to run our overseas conservation programme and our training academy. So we built a luxury camp, and it s been tremendous. You re right next to the park, so you wake up to animal sounds. We also run the wildlife hostel, a basic and affordable alternative; and a cafe called    the go-to place on this side of Jersey. in the Rozel valley: it has this fantastic wooded garden that not many people know about; it has a little microclimate and botanic plants.  it s got a few of them, but it s also quite normal. He knew all the greengrocers by name because they d give him all their discarded fruit and vegetables for the animals. like the , who painted  for us, and Mike Stentiford, Jersey s local naturalist. Mike did some talks for  last year   modelled on the one we do , where we visit places the Durrell family lived and visited. In Jersey, we had a lepidopterist and went bat watching. There s a really good natural history scene here. 																																																			