The Guardian s new global environment editor, Jonathan Watts, recently explained why he believes that there is currently no news story more important than climate change.  How to put the environment front and centre is the big challenge,  he wrote, before asking for your ideas for the new, expanded environment team. We ve received a notable volume of correspondence on this matter   and would like to thank all of you who took the time to write in with your thoughts. We wanted to share a small portion of those responses here, but will also be feeding back all your ideas and points of view to the environment team. If you missed Jonathan s piece      but would still like to contribute on this subject, then there is still time to do so. Send your thoughts by . As ever, we look forward to hearing from you.I ve been active in the green movement for around 30 years, and think it s fair to say that it has relied heavily on science for the legitimacy of its message. Many environment-related presentations start with a graph, table, or set of numbers. This is no doubt very important, but it has led to a corresponding reliance on science as a medium for communicating the environmental  message  and on technology as a means of dealing with our environmental problems. Arguably, there s not enough politics and not enough culture. I d like to see the Guardian covering the cultural aspects of green politics in more detail   novels, plays, the visual arts. What s happening there? What s its effect?In his article, Jonathan referred to the Anthropocene. That debate is currently dominated by scientists too. Of course the science is vital, but while the geologists are still debating whether we are in the Anthropocene or not, culturally we ve been in it for 20 or 30 years. So, a key question the Guardian could consider is not what is the Anthropocene, but what does it mean? How do we think of ourselves and our futures under the sign of the Anthropocene? Does it change who we are?I applaud your decision to step up environment reporting. I note also the commitment to consider the environment in other areas of reporting. A case in point: an article in the magazine the same Saturday as Jonathan Watts  piece, , contained one sentence in four pages that dealt with the environmental impact of the growth in white vans. I understand that this was a piece about the people who are driving the many more vans on the road, but could it not have had at least an explainer looking at some of the issues?Some questions might have been: How much of this traffic is driven by internet shopping? Is it better for Ocado and Tesco etc to deliver just once to 30 households, than for 30 people to drive to the supermarket? Or are these extra journeys?I agree with considering environmental issues as a fundamental element in global crisis, and would be very interested in stories that draw attention to the big picture, such as the effect of the expanding global population on environmental threats. But I am as much   or more   interested in hearing about everyday contributions that individuals can make towards reducing energy use.I would like to see environment coverage include local issues, and ideas for small changes that are easy to make. Enough small changes by enough people, and you reach a tipping point. The result can be enormous environmental improvements.The Guardian should be educating us on the impact of every significant decision we make   we ought to be aware of the shape of our climate impact and carbon footprint. But talking even to those committed to the cause, it appears that few have a grasp of information that could really inform their decisions. Impacts can be very complicated, but one of the more simple ones to compute (and sometimes the biggest one to tackle) is travel, especially air miles. Please publish tonnes of carbon per holiday clearly for each option in the Travel supplement. A simple graphic of how it adds to the average Guardian reader s footprint would bring it home.I was heartened to read the Guardian s announcement about expanding its environment desk. I find it frustrating that climate change is so far down the agenda of most political parties, save the Green party. And while surveys reveal that most people are concerned about this subject, the day-to-day demands of living seem to relegate the subject to a peripheral position. I have friends and acquaintances who take several flights a year for holidays. A focus on the damaging effects of frequent flying should, in my view, be a priority. It would be useful if the Guardian could compile a list of the most damaging behaviours supported by the relevant statistics.People can get depressed about environmental issues, not just because they seem so huge and difficult to tackle, but because it can be hard to understand how to make a real difference. I hope you will report on people and organisations that have made real changes for everyone s benefit by getting involved at a level higher than the individual (it s about more than cycling to work rather than driving!). If people feel galvanised or even empowered, then things can change for the better. I have spent 40 years campaigning for the environment, often pushing water uphill but with enough  wins  to want to carry on. We need more people who want to do that. Can you encourage them?Climate stories often seem to come across in a disjointed way: we start the year with a news piece that the last year was hotter than ever; we get another story that Greenland s ice is melting a bit faster than predicted; there s mention of methane gas being released in the Arctic circle. I think the inter-connectedness between these stories needs constant reinforcing. Tipping points don t just happen when we reach an arbitrary 2C average temperature rise   it looks like it s happening now and happening faster than we expected.I also want to read the story on what we are doing about it. How much CO2 have we cut in emissions? Who is successfully capturing and storing it? Who has been effective in government to curb the excesses of the carbon conglomerate?The environment is telling us that ignorance, stupidity, fear, hatred, greed, and blind tribalism must be overcome if we are to survive. It is the world calling us to unite, as human beings. The environment is the one thing we all have in common which penetrates deeper than humanity. It is time for us, in every sense of the word, to grow up.Good luck with your new environment desk. Get off page 54 and on to the front page! 