The head of an animal conservation NGO who had received numerous death threats has been shot and killed by an unknown gunman in .Wayne Lotter, 51, was shot on Wednesday evening in the Masaki district of the city of Dar es Salaam. The wildlife conservationist was being driven from the airport to his hotel when his taxi was stopped by another vehicle. Two men, one armed with a gun opened his car door and shot him.Lotter was a director and co-founder of the PAMS Foundation, an NGO that provides conservation and anti-poaching support to communities and governments in . Since starting the organisation in Tanzania in 2009, he had received numerous death threats relating to his work.Police in Tanzania have launched an investigation into his death. The PAMS Foundation funded and supported Tanzania s elite anti-poaching National and Transnational Serious Crimes Investigation Unit (NTSCIU) which was responsible for arrests of major ivory traffickers including Yang Feng Glan, the so-called  and several other notorious elephant poachers. Since 2012, the unit has arrested more than 2,000 poachers and ivory traffickers and has a conviction rate of 80%. The NTSCIU was recently featured in the Netflix documentary . In a previous interview, Lotter said he believed its work had helped to reduce poaching rates in Tanzania by at least 50%.The latest  suggests that elephant populations fell by 30% in Africa between 2007 and 2014. Tanzania experienced one of the biggest declines in elephant numbers, where the census documented a 60% decrease in the population.Lotter rarely took credit for PAMS  success in helping reduce poaching rates in Tanzania, and was always quick to credit the work of the communities and agencies he worked with.Lotter was a big figure in the international conservation community, having served on the boards of several conservation groups and was the Vice President of the International Ranger Federation. The news of his death has sent the community into mourning.  Wayne was one of Africa s leading and most committed conservationists. He had over two decades worth of experience in wildlife management and conservation, and can be credited as the driving force behind ending the unscrupulous slaughter of Tanzania s elephants,  said Azzedine Downes, CEO of the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW). Wayne devoted his life to Africa s wildlife. From working as a ranger in his native South Africa as a young man to leading the charge against poaching in Tanzania, Wayne cared deeply about the people and animals that populate this world,   released by the PAMS Foundation team.  Wayne s charm, brilliance and eccentric sense of humour gave him the unique ability to make those around him constantly laugh and smile. He died bravely fighting for the cause he was most passionate about. Wayne leaves behind his wife Inge, daughters Cara Jayne and Tamsin, and parents Vera and Charles Lotter. We all grieve with his family, colleagues and friends. His legacy will continue in our work.  This footnote was added on 18 August 2017. Vulcan, who support this independent editorial series, is also one of the funders for PAMS. 