The outlook for America s public lands is shifting, with  in a move that could diminish access and result in a sell-off to private interests. President Trump has also ordered Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to consider resizing 27 national monuments, . Currently, national land makes up almost a third of the US, with 640 million acres across the country held in a public trust. We asked readers to tell us what these natural, public spaces mean to them and share their experiences and memories from the parts of America that are, for now, preserved for all Americans.I need the wide open spaces, the solitude and the silence. As a photographer, I crave the open landscapes, wild animals and great skies. This land is where a herd of wild horses roam and live in Utah. I often spend time with them, just soaking up their spirits and the quiet, vastness of the land.I think transferring land to the state level is a huge mistake. The desire for money from these ventures would override everything else. Public lands are public and need to be managed with that in mind so that our future generations will have wild spaces to visit and find themselves in.Public lands are a place to escape the madness and stress that everyday life presents. They are a place to unplug our electronic devices and relax. I am an amateur photographer and I love taking pictures in our parklands, and when I am able to get a picture without masses of people, it delights me. I want my grandchildren to hear the yips of coyotes, the howling of wolves and the wild herds of mustangs and buffalo on the prairies and mountains.I plan on voting for candidates that have these same desires and I know that some of my current representatives have betrayed the views that I thought they shared. I am a hiker, camper, kayaker and bicyclist. I love being in the outdoors as it brings me an inner calm. These lands need to be preserved so that future generations can continue to find themselves, as I have. They should not be mined, drilled or developed in any way. If cattle ranchers need to use the land for grazing, they need to be sensitive to environmental rules and pay their usage fees. It is not their land. It is our land.Unfortunately, I fear that the kleptocracy that we live in has sold our heritage to the highest bidder. Public lands are for  of us to be able to enjoy and use. These lands were set aside for all of us, not just the rich to plunder their resources and pollute. It is yet another symptom of the fall of our representative republic.I am fortunate to live within 2m acres of wild national forest. It is a challenging place to live, with top predators part of the landscape. Scorpions, rattlesnakes, black widows and so on are part of daily life. The incredible beauty that surrounds us, however, makes it all worthwhile. One cannot live here and not be aware of the natural world. It is a gift that has enriched our lives and given sanctuary to the creatures that have been here for hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of years. We must honor the things that give us life and remind us that we are part of nature, not the owners thereof. Public lands are my escape from a crazy world. I love riding out alone and seeing wildlife or tracks and listening to the wind and my horses  hoofbeats, seeing trees, smelling nature, seeing natural beauty.I just rode in those grasslands (pictured above) and had the wonderful experience of seeing two rare Mexican gray wolves chasing elk, right behind us! It was amazing. Nature as it should be.The federal government must allot more money to the forest service, instead of taking money away, then saying the forest service is failing. I want all the lands that are federal lands to stay federal lands.I visit public lands quite frequently to view wildlife and get away from people. The peace and tranquility it brings is awesome. The scenery is what nature intended you to see. Not the hustle and bustle of human traffic that [a transfer to the states] will bring. We need to save these lands for the future of everything that s pure. Lands are sacred and should remain as such for the people of the future. Less domestic livestock, no trophy hunting ever. These lands were meant to be pure and provide homes for what wildlife we do have left.It is my go-to place to recover, heal, relax and spend time with my children making memories. If I could, I would spend at least one day a week exploring the land, skiing, fishing, watching the wildlife, including mustangs, elk, deer, wolves, buffalo, etc. It is a place of recovery from crazy, busy lives! These are the open lands where our history lives.Public lands have always played a large role in my life. I grew up in a house that backed up to a park on a dead-end street that offered access to undeveloped forrest along the Chemung river that runs through Elmira, New York. I spent the majority of my youth playing between these two places and going to the many spectacular state parks of the Finger Lakes region. When I was in the Boy Scouts, public lands took on a larger role in my life. With my troop, I hiked and camped all over the public lands of New York and Pennsylvania. Those excursions were where I escaped from the stresses of life and were I learned the most about myself. Their protection is what I want to work for.This picture (above) was taken in Castle Valley, Utah. Three friends and I (far right) camped there below Fisher Towers for two of the most spectacular nights of camping in my life. The splendor of the muddy waters of the Colorado river as it slithered like a snake through the valley will always be with me.Public land has been essential to the formation of my character and overall self. I am an avid hiker and climber and I would not be who I am today if I hadn t had the chance to develop a sense of independence and humility through my interactions with the natural world. I live in North Dakota, a state that comprises more than 70,000 square miles of prairie yet has among the lowest proportion of dedicated federal land in the nation. The transfer of federal lands to state oversight means that more of the US will, in time, look like North Dakota, with oil derricks and mining operations located next to, or inside of, park space. The bleeding of public lands for one-time, non-renewable sources of profit feeds a cycle of abuse and waste and degrades the quality of life for those who live on and with the land.The picture above is Cracker Lake, located on the east side of Glacier national park   a 15-hour drive from my home. If the distance to Glacier were twice that, it d still be worth the annual trip. I grew up in the west and public land was always a short distance away and one of the things for which I am most proud of our country. It s simply natural to me that much of the land in the west is set aside for public benefit. This picture (above) was the view from an overlook off of Skyline Drive in Shenandoah national park in Virginia. It s the first national park my spouse and I ever visited.The large western states that are lobbying for a transfer of federal land to them have not had a history of successfully managing their existing public land, so transferring federal land to them would be rather poor idea.