There was tremendous outcry when the New York Times hired opinion columnist Bret Stephens, who has a long history of . Stephens didn t assuage those fears when he , absurdly suggesting that our lack of progress on climate policy is a result of greens being too mean to climate deniers.Stephens lamentably stayed on the subject of climate change in his  and  Times columns as well. In those pieces, he used corn-based ethanol subsidies as an example of where climate policy has gone wrong:This is a clear case of cherry picking. There are hundreds of examples of climate policies with varying degrees of effectiveness; why focus on just one? Many environmental groups and  climate-change activists  have long opposed corn-based ethanol subsidies, as Stephens himself noted. Politicians of both political parties supported those subsidies because they were popular in corn-growing Midwestern states. It had little if anything to do with climate efficacy. So why blame  climate-change activists  for these politically-motivated subsidies?For his next misleading argument, Stephens shifted to German electricity costs:Stephens  comparison to 2009 is another example of blatant cherry picking. German carbon emissions that year were particularly low, due in part to the global recession. The long-term trend is unmistakable:It s also odd that Stephens criticized Germany for its electricity bills, given that the report he referenced shows . The difference is that while German electricity rates are 3.3 times higher than Americans , their electricity consumption is 3.4 times lower. In other words, German policies have been successful in cutting the nation s carbon pollution while still keeping their electricity bills a bit lower than Americans . The country is far from perfect    for a significant amount of that electricity generation   but from a climate policy perspective, Germany is mostly a success story. America s per-person carbon pollution is nearly twice as high as Germany s.Although his columns are riddled with these sorts of misleading cherry picks, worse yet is that Stephens  arguments are , distracting from the elephant in the room. Stephens  columns worry that America will jump on the bandwagon of any feel-good climate policy. If only we lived in a world where that were a legitimate concern. In reality, the Trump administration is taking every possible step to undo all American climate policies. They re  because they believe it won t allow America to increase its carbon pollution. The administration has effectively  and our future well-being. Noam Chomsky has called the Republican Party the most dangerous organization in human history because of its climate denial and policy obstruction.Stephens  focus on corn-based ethanol is like a cancer patient worrying about a hangnail. Certainly, all parties should debate the best and most effective policies to address climate change. We ve been  to engage in that debate. Democrats have proposed all sorts of different policy solutions - government regulations, free market cap and trade systems (), small government  - you name it. They re not the problem. Fortunately, some prominent Republicans have stepped up to engage in the climate policy debate. Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham authored past climate legislation. 19 House Republicans have joined , 12 of whom just introduced  that would establish a commission to recommend economically viable climate policies. And a group of Republican elder statesmen on  to recommend support for a revenue-neutral carbon tax.However, while deserving of great praise and encouragement for their efforts, these climate realist Republican Party leaders are in the minority. The question is whether they can wrest control of the party away from the climate deniers and policy obstructionists before too much damage is done to the Earth s climate and the future prospects of the GOP.The Republican Party used to be conservative on environmental issues, as Tea Party co-founder Debbie Dooley has noted:On this issue, the conservative approach requires major efforts to cut carbon pollution. Merely investing in research and clean technologies, as Stephens supports, is grossly insufficient. It s worthwhile to challenge New York Times readers  notions and worldviews, but not if it s done in an intellectually dishonest way on the greatest existential problem we face today. Stephens could use his platform and influence to try and reverse his party s policy obstruction; instead he s chosen to  Times readers. They expect and deserve much better.