Three boys chase each other and a small dog around a tree at the project in East Chicago, Indiana, under the watchful eyes of 80-year-old Mary Fluellen . Wash your hands when you get inside!  says Fluellen, better known as  Granny  around the complex. Over the past few weeks residents have  telling them to wash their hands thoroughly and leave their shoes at the door, to avoid spreading lead that has been found in dangerously high levels in soil at the housing project.But such precautionary measures seem futile after years of families living amid the contamination. We used to have mud fights and play slip-and-slide  on the wet grass, remembers Anthony Abbey, 33, who grew up in the housing complex.  You were throwing lead at each other,  notes Mario Irving.The community of about 1,100 mostly African American residents of the housing project has been reeling since receiving word in the past month that they have to relocate. The tidy two-storey brick units where many have lived for decades will be torn down because of massive levels of lead and arsenic contamination in the soil, deceptively masked by lush green grass and clumps of flowers.There have been concerns about lead contamination for decades, and tests by the  a decade ago found hot spots of serious contamination. But federal and state officials had concluded residents were not at risk until the May release of comprehensive soil test results, which showed more than half the project s yards exceeded lead levels that would trigger emergency cleanup, and many also had high levels of arsenic.Many residents say they were unaware of the situation until they received letters in July from the city s mayor, Anthony Copeland, noting the findings and stating:  We feel it is in your best interest to temporarily relocate your household. Since then, local children and adults have been getting blood tests. Many have come back showing serious levels of lead; others are awaiting their results, and still others have gotten results that are considered safe. But people who have lost all trust in official sources don t believe them.Parents and grandparents say they are torn between competing impulses: anxious to move out of an environment that may be causing children irreversible harm, but wary of shattering a community home to many extended families and lifelong friends. It s very tight-knit,  said Milton Ross, a wiry 62-year-old construction worker who lives with his mother in the complex.  When I first heard, my heart told Jesus:  Wherever we all go, I hope there are a lot of events where we can come back and get together. There have been concerns about lead contamination in the soil here since at least 1985, when a nearby lead smelter shut down. In soil tests released in 2006, the EPA found seriously elevated lead levels in some areas. Those spots were cleaned up, and in 2009 the site was added to the Superfund National Priorities List. The federal government oversaw blood tests of local children. But in 2011 a branch of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released saying that declining numbers of children with elevated blood lead levels led them to conclude the contamination did not pose a public health threat.The EPA cited this finding as the reason it did not more aggressively continue to test the soil, at least not until it had to develop a cleanup plan under with the companies responsible for polluting the area, the DuPont chemical company and Atlantic Richfield Company. released in May showed soil in the majority of yards above the EPA s 1,200 parts per million standard for emergency cleanup. The EPA maintains it could remediate the soil in yards and residents could continue living there. But city officials said they think the lead stirred up during remediation would be a risk to residents. And since the city had already decided the complex would be demolished in coming years, officials decided it wouldn t make sense to remediate it.Now residents are getting Housing Choice Vouchers that subsidize rental units. But there are ceilings on how much rent the voucher will cover, and many prospective renters struggle to find landlords who will accept the vouchers.City attorney Carla Morgan said that officials are scrambling to find new homes for the 357 families who live in the West Calumet project.While the West Calumet housing complex will be evacuated and torn down, the EPA is testing soil across the rest of the, filled with single-family homes, small businesses, multiple churches and a relatively new but now vacant elementary school. The agency has estimated 723 of 1,271 parcels in the area will need to be cleaned up. I m praying,  said Jennifer Sims, 57, who lives in her childhood home a few blocks from the housing project. Sims grew up playing in the housing project, and remembers that  mothers and families lived on the gardens  growing vegetables in the tainted soil.  Why did they do this to us? The impacts of longstanding lead contamination in West Calumet could also stretch to surrounding areas, where many people who grew up there have dispersed.Tyra Taylor, 45, raised her three kids in West Calumet. Her daughter, now 25, has epilepsy and cervical cancer, she said. And Taylor suffers from a long list of health problems including neuropathy, glaucoma and a disorder which causes her to faint frequently. Now living in a rental unit a block away, she thinks the lead and arsenic contamination explain a lot about the family s health. It s the lead!  she says, throwing her arms wide.Like many residents, she is angry that the housing authority and EPA continued to allow residents to live in the project after contamination was suspected and then confirmed.Residents said they never would have moved here if they knew about the contamination, but they said they were left in the dark until just recently.Robert Kaplan, the EPA Region 5 acting administrator, noted that over the years there have been multiple public comment periods, meetings hosted in local libraries and postcards sent out about the soil testing and cleanup plans. I understand that there are newer residents and people moving in and out, so outreach can be difficult,  Kaplan said, but  under the usual Superfund process, everything is public notice ... We received no public comment including from the city. Many residents attribute the situation to racism; national pundits have compared it to the , where officials let residents drink contaminated water for months. They think because we stay over here we re nothing, we re lowlifes, we re black and we re poor, they treat us like dogs,  said Irving, who is a single father and a student at Ivy Tech community college.  They re killing us softly. Morgan said the current mayoral administration cannot be accused of environmental injustice since Copeland has been proactive on the issue, and since city officials are largely African American and from similar socioeconomic backgrounds to the affected residents. The EPA said of residents  feelings of injustice:  Protecting public health, especially in environmental justice communities is a top priority for EPA. That s why the Agency has taken many steps over the past several years to keep the residents of the West Calumet Housing Project informed about the work being done in their area to reduce lead exposure. Meanwhile Taylor prefers to temper her anger with laughter. If you scratch our arms along a piece of paper, you can write, like a pencil,  she says.  It s the lead!  