A day after accepting a top White House job, President Trump's new communications director announced Saturday that he's deleting old tweets that were critical of his new boss, saying his own views have evolved and that what he said in the past shouldn't be a distraction. Full transparency: I'm deleting old tweets. Past views evolved & shouldn't be a distraction. I serve @POTUS agenda & that's all that matters "Full transparency: I'm deleting old tweets. Past views evolved & shouldn't be a distraction. I serve @POTUS agenda & that's all that matters," Anthony Scaramucci, the latest White House hire, tweeted on Saturday. He followed up that notice to followers by saying, "The politics of 'gotcha' are over. I have a thick skin and we're moving on to @POTUS agenda serving the American people." Mr. Trump announced Friday that he'd hired Wall Street financier Scaramucci to help the White House sharpen its public message. Outgoing White House press secretary Sean Spicer announced his resignation after Mr. Trump selected Scaramucci to be his new communications director, a decision that factored into Spicer's decision to leave, CBS News confirmed. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who has served as the deputy press secretary, will be the new press secretary.  In a statement following his appointment, Mr. Trump said, "Anthony is a person I have great respect for, and he will be an important addition to this Administration. He has been a great supporter and will now help implement key aspects of our agenda while leading the communications team." He added, "We have accomplished so much, and we are being given credit for so little. The good news is the people get it, even if the media doesn't." Social media users quickly did a deep dive and recirculated past tweets by Scaramucci that were at odds with Mr. Trump's views, including one that praised Hillary Clinton's competence. Mr. Trump defeated Clinton for president last year and continues to criticize her, including in several tweets Saturday. Other repurposed Scaramucci tweets expressed support for stronger gun laws, which he tweeted about in August 2012. In May 2016, he expressed displeasure with individuals who believe climate change is a hoax. Mr. Trump has at times referred to global warming as a hoax. Weirdly these are being deleted! But the Internet is forever, Anthony Scaramucci. pic.twitter.com/wYTeULnxMW Twitter users also scrolled back deep into Scaramucci's timeline to raise questions about a 2012 tweet in which he seemed to misattribute a quote to author Mark Twain. "Dance like no one is watching. Sing like no one is listening. Love like you've never been hurt and live like its heaven on earth. Mark Twain," Scaramucci tweeted. Scaramucci did not delete that tweet. Dance like no one is watching. Sing like no one is listening. Love like you've never been hurt and live like its heaven on earth. MarkTwain Scaramucci served Mr. Trump as a campaign fundraiser and adviser during the transition. He is currently serving as the senior vice president and chief strategy office at the Export-Import Bank, and will officially begin his new role Aug. 15.  He made his first appearance before reporters in the White House briefing room on Friday and quickly apologized to Mr. Trump for referring to him as a "hack politician" during an August 2015 appearance on Fox Business Network. Asked whether Mr. Trump was aware of the comment, Scaramucci joked that the president mentions it every 15 seconds. He called it one of his "biggest mistakes" before looking into the cameras and saying: "Mr. President, if you're listening, I personally apologize for the 50th time for saying that."