This is Essential Politics, our daily look at California political and government news. Here's what we're watching right now: Be sure to follow us on Twitter for more, or subscribe to our free daily newsletter and the California Politics Podcast. Also don't miss our Essential Politics page in Sunday's California section. Assemblywoman Melissa Melendez said Thursday she will seek to replace Chad Mayes as Assembly Republican leader when the Legislature returns from summer recess Monday. Melendez said Mayes' vote for extending the state's cap-and-trade program, which requires companies to buy permits to pollute, allowed the Democrats to win approval of a bad program that will lead to higher fuel and energy prices for Californians. "I am ready and willing to be the type of leader you have been asking for, one who has principles," Melendez said to applause at a meeting of the Riverside County Republican Party. "When the Assembly returns Monday, I will be throwing my name in the hat to run for Republican leader." Mayes, who is from Yucca Valley, has said his vote showed bipartisan cooperation to solve a problem.  Melendez, a resident of Lake Elsinore, said Republicans hurt their party in joining Democrats to vote for measures that raise costs for business and consumers. "Republicans do not have to vote like Democrats to save the Republican Party," Melendez said. Assemblyman Jay Obernolte (R-Big Bear Lake) has also expressed interest in replacing Mayes should he decide to step down. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) called Thursday for a House Judiciary Committee hearing on the impact of white supremacist groups on civil rights. The move comes as party leaders are fretting over the political fallout from President Trump s response to the violence spawned by white supremacists and neo-Nazis last weekend in Charlottesville, Va.  As the nation grieves and heals from the scenes of this past weekend, we have a duty to more fully understand what led to these terrible events and the persistence of these hateful, extremist ideologies,  Issa said in a letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.). Trump condemned the neo-Nazis and white supremacists whose protests against Charlottesville s removal of a Confederate monument turned violent. But earlier this week the president reversed course in his remarks on the violence, saying some  very fine people  marched alongside the extremists, and casting some blame on counter-protesters. On Thursday, Trump lamented the growing calls to take down Confederate monuments. Issa, who narrowly won reelection last year, is one of California s most vulnerable Republican incumbents in next year s House elections. He has been trying to broaden his appeal among moderates in his coastal district, which straddles northern San Diego and southern Orange counties. On Thursday, he bemoaned the  despicable display of bigotry and evil  by a  repulsive hate group,  saying a hearing should be held next month.  While Congress cannot legislate respect, decency, or acceptance of others,  he said,  we have an obligation to use our platform to lead our country forward on these matters.  It's not easy to get an auditorium full of hundreds of teenagers screaming with excitement on their first week back to school. Lin-Manuel Miranda, the Tony Award- and Pulitzer Prize-winning creator of "Hamilton" did just that Thursday, as he spoke to nearly 1,000 students in Rep. Tony Cardenas' San Fernando Valley district. In a roughly 30-minute question-and-answer session at Panorama High School, Miranda flowed seamlessly between English and Spanish, speaking about his earliest memories with his abuelita and telling the young crowd, "Mi tiempo es tuya" -- "My time is yours."  He also described history as "a canvas." "It's for you to tell the stories we haven't heard yet. And to lift those voices, those often marginalized voices, up, and I can't wait to see what you create," Miranda told the crowd of mostly high schoolers, many of them Latino. He took turns answering lighthearted questions about his first job (working for $4.25 an hour at a Manhattan McDonald's) and the one food he'd choose to eat for the rest of his life (a type of Puerto Rican lasagna). But he also offered some tidbits of advice for the youngsters, telling them to "surround yourself and fill yourself up with the thing you're chasing."  Responding to a question about being successful as a Latino, Miranda said, "You'll face struggle. You will face people telling you you've got to look a certain way, you will face people telling you that you have to tell a specific story." He added, "You could write a bad version of someone else's story but only you can tell your story." Cardenas set up the event, billed as a "town hall" focused on civic engagement, after meeting Miranda's father, political consultant Luis Miranda, and chatting with him over coffee about the need to expose Latino youth to role models who look like them. The elder Miranda brought his son onboard and was in the audience, along with Miranda's mother, Dr. Luz Towns-Miranda, at the event on Thursday.  Cardenas' 29th Congressional District is nearly 70% Latino and almost 45% of residents were born outside the United States. "It's about talking to 1,000 children, who many of them are scared," Cardenas told reporters afterward. "It's important for us to understand that examples like Lin-Manuel Miranda ... we don't have to be angry voices." Miranda also addressed questions about the current political climate and the recent violence in Charlottesville, Va. "As scary and tragic as the events of last week were, the outpouring of pushback has been heartening," Miranda said. "If you're a kid and you're scared in this country, there's a lot of adults who are working really hard and have your back." In a three-minute video released on ATTN's Facebook page, former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger criticizes President Trump's response to the recent violence in Charlottesville, Va. "The only way to beat the loud, angry voices of hate is to meet them with louder, more reasonable voices. That includes you President Trump," he said. "You have a moral responsibility to send an unequivocal message that you won't stand for hate and racism.  Schwarzenegger, who has had a longstanding feud with Trump, advises the president in his video that he should outright "reject the support of white supremacists" before turning his attention to neo-Nazis, white nationalists, and neo-Confederates. "Your heroes are losers. You are supporting a lost cause," he said. "Let's terminate hate." In the aftermath of the Charlottesville violence, Schwarzenegger donated $100,000 to a Los Angeles-based anti-hate group, and encouraged others to act in similar charitable ways.  Retired Army Sgt. Daniel Casara, who initially stepped up to challenge embattled Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Alpine), on Thursday joined other Republicans seeking to oust Democratic Rep. Scott Peters from his 52nd Congressional District seat. "Washington needs more patriots and less politicians," Casara said in a statement. "Voters demand a representative who understand the needs of a strong national defense and will support the men and women who provide it." The Purple Heart medal recipient and 43-year-old motivational speaker originally launched a bid against Hunter, a six-term Republican under investigation by the FBI over alleged misuse of campaign funds. Hunter has at least one other Republican challenger. Peters is one of the California Democrats that Republicans hope to defeat in 2018. Casara joins Republican candidates Omar Qudrat, an attorney; and James Veltmeyer, a physician, in the race for the seat. Marc Troast, Casara's campaign manager, said Casara respects Hunter, a fellow military serviceman.  "But there are some issues in his home district [Casara] wants to help solve,  Troast said. That was the main reason for the switch, he said. A new ballot initiative was submitted to state officials Thursday advocating for a federal constitutional convention that could lead to California's independence. The measure, similar to one already in circulation that is pushing for California's secession from the union, would require the state Legislature to ask Congress to establish a new constitutional convention. "We believe that justice for all requires constant vigilance and a thorough examination of laws and governmental actions that disproportionately impact diverse segments of society," the initiative states. "These beliefs depend on resolutely defending these Californian values, which support every individual's hopes and dreams for the future." The initiative has been submitted to Atty. Gen. Xavier Becerra for an official title and summary, a necessary step before supporters can collect signatures to put the measure on the 2018 ballot. Once that happens, backers would have to gather nearly 600,000 signatures in 180 days.  This is the third official effort this year to try to make California an independent state, a push known informally as "Calexit." Supporters of another measure, which would direct California's governor to negotiate more autonomy from the federal government, already have been cleared to collect signatures. A more aggressive measure to ask for independence immediately has been abandoned.  The group behind this most recent measure calls itself California Constitutional Convention Initiative Team. One of its backers is Marcus Ruiz Evans, who has been involved in California secessionist causes since 2012 and calls himself the founder of the Calexit movement. The state campaign watchdog agency voted Thursday to lift limits on contributions from elected officials to candidates facing recalls, boosting Sen. Josh Newman s effort to fend off a campaign to remove him from office for voting for a gas-tax increase. The 3-1 vote by the state Fair Political Practices Commission rejects an initial opinion by its attorneys that supported past advice letters declaring that legislators can give no more than $4,400 to colleagues fighting recalls. The Democratic Senate Caucus, of which Newman, a Fullerton lawmaker, is a member, requested the change. Approved after tense exchanges between commissioners, the new opinion takes effect immediately, and some predict a flood of new contributions to Newman from other legislators, even though elections officials are still counting signatures to see if a recall qualifies for the ballot. Commissioner Allison Hayward said the limit on the contributions is not supported by regulations and is unfair because there is no limit on contributions to campaigns to recall officials.  What we ve got right now is a situation where there is a restriction on one side of an essentially bilateral battle ... that doesn t apply to the other side,  Hayward said.  It s pretty clear to me that, at least at the U.S. Supreme Court, such imbalances just can t be tolerated.  Chairwoman Jodi Remke cast the only vote against the change, noting the position that the contributions should be limited has been held by the panel since 2002 based on staff interpretations of the law. She said she was concerned about the timing as the Democratic senator faces a recall.  I will be issuing a dissenting opinion,  Remke told the panel.  I believe this is the wrong time and wrong venue for us to reverse a longstanding commission interpretation of a statute.  Remke disputed that the rule creates unfairness in the election, noting elected officials can already contribute unlimited amounts to fight a recall, as long as it does not go to a committee controlled by the candidate under threat. The quick action on the Democrats' request has drawn criticism from the California Republican Party, which has also complained that Commissioner Brian Hatch did not publicly disclose a meeting and text message exchange he had with Richard Rios, an attorney for the Democrats. Commissioner Maria Audero disputed that the change was mishandled, or that it should be delayed because there is a pending recall.  We answer to the people who come before us and ask us to do something. We don t control when they come before us,  Audero said.  Our duty is to respond. Our duty is not to fabricate some nefarious intent to a reason why something is before us.  Audero said the criticism that the decision is political because the supporters were all appointed by Democrats is  comical  because Audero and Hayward are Republicans. Far-right blogger and provocateur Chuck C. Johnson said on Thursday that he helped arrange a highly unusual meeting between Orange County GOP Rep. Dana Rohrabacher and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange this week. Rohrabacher said in a statement that he plans to bring information to President Trump from the three-hour meeting, which took place Wednesday in London at the Ecuadorian Embassy, where Assange has been living in asylum since 2012. He would not detail that information to The Times, but in an interview Thursday morning with the Daily Caller, Rohrabacher was more explicit, saying he and Assange talked about  what might be necessary to get him out and suggested they discussed a presidential pardon in exchange for information on the theft of emails from the Democratic National Committee, which were published by WikiLeaks before the 2016 presidential election.  He has information that will be of dramatic importance to the United States and the people of our country as well as to our government,  Rohrabacher told the Daily Caller.  Thus if he comes up with that, you know he s going to expect something in return. He can t even leave the embassy to get out to Washington to talk to anybody if he doesn t have a pardon.  Johnson, who is known for being banned from Twitter after he asked users for help  taking out a civil rights activist, said that he and Assange attorney Jennifer Robinson also were in the meeting. Johnson wrote in an email to The Times that the meeting was the result of a  desire for ongoing communications from both Rohrabacher and Assange. Rohrabacher spokesman Ken Grubbs said the congressman alerted the White House about his planned trip to visit Assange. The White House has not confirmed whether it was aware of the meeting ahead of time. Rohrabacher s office said that during the meeting, Assange repeated his claims that the Russian government was not involved in the theft of Democratic emails. The release of the emails put Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton on the defensive and are among the incidents that led to investigations by the Justice Department and multiple House and Senate committees into potential ties between President Trump s campaign and election meddling. Multiple U.S. intelligence agencies think Russia was involved in the theft of the emails. In a statement, DNC spokeswoman Adrienne Watson said,  We ll take the word of the U.S. intelligence community over Julian Assange and Putin s favorite Congressman.  Assange, who has been criticized by many U.S. officials for WikiLeaks alleged ties to Russia, remains in asylum at least in part because British authorities have threatened him with arrest for jumping bail after Sweden made sexual assault allegations against him. Those allegations since have been dropped, but Assange, who is Australian, also could face legal problems in the U.S. The Washington Post reported in April that federal prosecutors were weighing whether to bring charges against members of WikiLeaks, in part over information leaked by Chelsea Manning, the U.S. soldier convicted of handing over diplomatic cables to the organization. Rohrabacher, who has long been criticized for his fondness for Russia, believes he is the only congressman who has visited Assange. Shortly after the trip was revealed, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee called for Rohrabacher to step down from his post on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where he chairs a subcommittee on Eurasian affairs. Grubbs called the Democratic committee s call  absurdly but predictably partisan.  Grubbs also said Rohrabacher paid for the trip to London  which he took while many of his House colleagues are working and holding town hall meetings in their districts  with personal funds. With Gov. Jerry Brown and lawmakers debating billions in new spending for a variety of projects on the 2018 ballot, Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon (D-Paramount) said low-income housing will be the highest priority. Brown is supporting bonds on the 2018 ballot that would finance new homes for low-income residents and those that would improve water and parks infrastructure. But the dollar amounts for each measure haven't been settled.  "We re going to negotiate for as high as we possibly can on housing," Rendon said Thursday in a conference call with the Los Angeles Times Editorial Board. "We think it s a more critical need." The housing proposal now pending in the Legislature calls for a $3-billion bond, but State Treasurer John Chiang joined Rendon on the conference call to argue for one as high as $9 billion. While a larger bond would lead to the construction of more homes, the state would still fall far short of the new home building needed to combat its housing affordability crisis. Last month, Brown, Rendon and Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Le n agreed to a housing bond and other legislation designed to ease housing problems. Rendon sounded less confident about the passage of another part of the housing package: a proposal to charge $75 on mortgage refinances and other real estate transactions. The fee would raise about $250 million a year and go toward building low-income housing. That legislation, Senate Bill 2 by Sen. Toni Atkins (D-San Diego), requires two-thirds supermajority votes in both houses of the Legislature. Both moderate and liberal Democrats in the Assembly have raised red flags about increasing fees on homeowners. Rendon said it was difficult to predict how the vote would pan out. "A two-thirds vote is obviously always a very big lift," he said. "In general, the members know that housing is a basic human need." Following a flood of reports by female entrepreneurs detailing lewd remarks and unwanted sexual advances by male investors, a California lawmaker wants state law to explicitly prohibit such harassment.  State Sen. Hannah-Beth Jackson (D-Santa Barbara) announced Thursday she was introducing a measure to amend California's Unruh Civil Right Act to expressly forbid sexual harassment between investors and entrepreneurs.  Jackson said she believes such behavior already is barred under existing law under a blanket prohibition in the Unruh Act, which outlaws discrimination based on sex, gender, ethnicity and other categories. But, she noted, the act also specifically names certain business relationships as being protected from such harassment. By naming the relationship between investors and start-up founders, she hopes that will provide additional clarity for women who have been harassed. "Because there hasn't been that clarity, I think women have been reluctant to step forward," Jackson said in a call with reporters. "By including this specifically, it reaffirms and will hopefully provide the kind of incentive for women who have been victimized by this behavior to step forward because it will be specifically identified in the law." The proposal was prompted by a spate of reports from female tech entrepreneurs, who went public with stories of being asked on dates and experiencing unwanted physical contact when dealing with male venture capitalists, whose investments are crucial to getting fledgling start-ups off the ground. "Their stories have peeled back a shroud of secrecy and exposed behaviors that are simply not acceptable in any industry," Jackson said. The disclosures have prompted a round of self-reflection in the tech industry, with some venture capitalists issuing public mea culpas, and others promising a crackdown on predatory behavior. Noreen Farrell, executive director of Equal Rights Advocates, said Silicon Valley "understands it has to change," but self-policing measures such as decency pledges "really won't cut it." "The women that we talk to are tired of being treated by venture capitalists as sexual opportunities instead of investment opportunities," Farrell said. Jackson plans to insert her measure into an existing bill, SB 224, in a process known as a "gut-and-amend." But with the Legislature slated to end its work for the year in less than a month, she said her bill will not be taken up until next January, when the new legislative year begins.  California corrections officials have failed to ensure prison staff members properly evaluate, treat and monitor inmates at risk of taking their own lives, according to a scathing state audit released Thursday. The California State Auditor report, requested by a joint legislative audit committee, found state prisons failed to follow their own suicide prevention and response policies, while their average suicide rate was substantially higher than the average of U.S. state prisons   22 per 100,000 inmates versus 15.66 per 100,000 inmates. The state auditor's office reviewed 40 files on prisoners who committed or attempted suicide at four state prisons. Thirty-six inmates required suicide-risk evaluations, but mental health staff failed to complete at least one required risk evaluation for 10 prisoners and completed inadequate risk evaluations for 26 others. Prison staff members were said to have left some sections of these evaluations blank. They often didn't appropriately justify determinations of suicide risk, or failed to develop adequate plans for treatment, the report said. Court-appointed mental health experts had alerted corrections officials to the problems for the past several years, it found. Out of 25 inmates requiring treatment plans, prison staff members did not develop adequate approaches to care for 23 and failed to create any plans for two, the audit found. Staff at all four prisons insufficiently monitored inmates at risk of suicide, failing to check in on them at the required 15-minute intervals, auditors found. The rates of women who have committed suicide in California state prisons soared, according to the report. From 2014 through 2016, women comprised about 4% of the total inmate population but accounted for roughly 11% of its inmate suicides. Almost all occurred at the California Institute for Women in San Bernardino. Although drug involvement and domestic violence were among factors that could have contributed to the higher rate of female inmate suicides, state auditors said, state prisons had not made sure staff were trained on suicide prevention and response. The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation provides mental healthcare to roughly 123,000 men and 5,800 women incarcerated at its facilities.  State auditors recommended that the state Legislature require corrections officials to properly train staff and continue to develop their oversight processes, including audits of prisons  risk evaluations and treatment plans. The department should be required to report its progress each year, the report said. Corrections officials said no suicides had been reported at the California Institute for Women this year, where new programs to help suicide prevention offer brief, discreet counseling services. In a statement, state corrections secretary Scott Kernan said the department "has made a great deal of progress implementing policies, training, and support for suicide prevention practices statewide, and acknowledges there is further progress to make."  When lawmakers return next week from their summer recess, one of the big items on their to-do list is approving billions in new spending to put on the 2018 ballot. Gov. Jerry Brown and top legislative leaders have agreed to support bonds to finance the construction of new homes for low-income residents and improvements to water and parks infrastructure. But exactly how much money and what projects would receive the funding remain undecided and subject to furious debate over the next month.  Read more The newest Democrat to announce a challenge against Republican incumbent Jeff Denham of Turlock is also one of the youngest congressional candidates in the state. Mateo Morelos Bedolla, 24, of Tracy isn't even old enough to be in Congress. If he manages to pull ahead in the crowded June primary in his long-shot bid to unseat the four-term congressman., he'll meet the constitutionally required age of 25 before the November 2018 general election. "I feel that I'm uniquely qualified based on the work that I've done," said Bedolla, who left his job as a congressional aide for Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-Stockton) earlier this year. Prior to working for McNerney, Bedolla said he worked in construction to help put himself through college.  In a statement announcing his run, Bedolla said he supports a Medicare-for-all model for healthcare and "debt-free education," but said in an interview that he doesn't want to be labeled a "Berniecrat," a name used by some candidates who support an agenda promoted by Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, the former Democratic presidential candidate. "I'm trying to address basic issues that would apply to everybody," said Bedolla, who said he voted for Sanders in last year's presidential primary. Bedolla formed a campaign committee in May and reported raising $114 in the second quarter of 2017. He joins at least seven other candidates who are hoping to unseat Denham. "Hamilton" creator Lin-Manuel Miranda will be talking with high school students in the San Fernando Valley Thursday, a day after the hit Broadway musical opened at Hollywood's Pantages Theatre. The appearance alongside Rep. Tony C rdenas (D-Los Angeles) is being billed as a "town hall" on civic engagement and Miranda is expected to take questions from the students. About 1,000 high schoolers from across C rdenas' 29th Congressional District have been invited to participate, according to the congressman's spokeswoman. His staff has asked The Times not to disclose the exact location of the event until shortly before it begins due to concerns that hundreds of screaming fans might descend on the school. So why, exactly, did Miranda decide to visit C rdenas' district? Cardenas' spokeswoman said the congressman met up with Miranda's father, Luis Miranda, a political consultant, after months of hearing from mutual friends that they should meet. They talked over coffee about the need to promote and empower Latino youth to engage them in the political process. "From the congressman's perspective, so many young Latinos just don't have faith in themselves and the confidence to get involved, so it was something that they're both very passionate about," said spokeswoman Francesca Amodeo. Cardenas then floated an idea to the senior Miranda: Students in his heavily Latino district don't often get to meet Latino "superstars" in person, and a visit from the "Hamilton" star would be inspiring. Lin-Manuel Miranda was immediately interested and found a time to make it work while he was in California for the musical's opening, Amodeo said. The "Hamilton" creator has been making a series of appearances as the musical makes its debut in L.A. he gave a mini-concert on the sidewalk outside the Pantages on Wednesday. Today's event is expected to begin around 1 p.m. Follow me on Twitter for the latest. Orange County GOP Rep. Dana Rohrabacher confirmed that he met Wednesday with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who is still living in asylum at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London.  In a statement, Rohrabacher's office said the Australian fugitive "emphatically stated that the Russians were not involved" in the theft of Democratic National Committee emails during the 2016 presidential campaign. The emails, which were published by WikiLeaks, put Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton on the defensive. The conversation between Rohrabacher and Assange, which was first reported by the Daily Caller, "ranged over many topics," according to the statement. The statement didn't reveal much more, but said "the congressman plans to divulge more of what he found directly to President Trump." Multiple U.S. intelligence agencies have agreed Russia was involved in the theft of Democratic Party emails and tried to influence the 2016 election to benefit Trump. The Justice Department, along with multiple House and Senate committees, are investigating potential ties between Trump's campaign and election meddling. Rohrabacher, who has long been criticized for his fondness for Russia, believes he is the only congressman who has visited Assange. Rohrabacher's name has repeatedly come up in discussions of the investigation into Russian interference. His spokesman did not respond to requests for additional comment, including questions about how the trip was funded and whether the White House was aware of the trip.  Assange has been hiding out in the Ecuadorean Embassy since 2012 to avoid sexual assault allegations against him in Sweden. That investigation was dropped this year, but British authorities have said he could still be arrested for jumping bail if he leaves the embassy. In April, CIA Director Mike Pompeo dismissed Assange as a "narcissist" and called WikiLeaks a "non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia." House Speaker Paul Ryan has criticized Assange as a "sycophant for Russia." Trump himself has expressed an affinity for Assange in the past, tweeting praise for the fugitive. The Washington Post reported in April that federal prosecutors were weighing whether to bring charges against members of WikiLeaks, in part over information leaked by Chelsea Manning, the U.S. soldier convicted of handing over diplomatic cables to the organization. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is demanding that Rohrabacher resign from his seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Democrats and Republicans alike agree that Julian Assange is a threat to America's national security and has aligned with the Kremlin to undermine our elections," said DCCC spokesman Drew Godinich, who called Rohrabacher's behavior "completely shocking." Rohrabacher is one of the top Republican incumbents California Democrats are hoping to topple in 2018. He has already attracted nine challengers, most of them Democrats, including real estate broker Harley Rouda, who released a campaign ad criticizing the 15-term Republican for his repeated defense of Russia. Rohrabacher, who once worked for the Orange County Register, told The Hill that he also planned to convey a request from Assange to Trump for a WikiLeaks seat inside the White House press room.  Julian passionately argued the case that WikiLeaks was vital to informing the public about controversial though necessary issues," he told The Hill. "As a former newsman myself, I can't see a reason why they shouldn't be granted news status for official press conferences." Hoping up to conjure up the same momentum that led to a 1986 tax overhaul under President Reagan, Republican leaders on the House Ways and Means Committee traveled to the Reagan Ranch on Wednesday to pitch an equally ambitious tax plan. They were thousands of miles from Washington, but the congressmen couldn't avoid commenting on President Trump's remarks about the deadly violence at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Va., last weekend. They were peppered with questions from reporters about the incident, and asked if they remained confident in the Republican president. One congressman said Trump's latest controversy was distracting for the Republican agenda, including tax reform. But House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas said he believes the tax overhaul will stay on track, despite the distractions in the White House. The 1986 legislation was a bipartisan effort hammered out by Reagan and a Senate controlled by Republicans and a House controlled by the Democrats. After Reagan took office in 1981, he won a 25% cut in personal income taxes and big tax breaks for businesses. The cuts were a catalyst for the tax reform package that passed five years later. The proposals outlined Wednesday, however, are purely a Republican effort, with negotiations between Trump and GOP leaders in the House and Senate.  Brady promised to invite Democrats to the table, saying they have lots of good ideas and have just as much interest in creating jobs and keeping U.S. companies from moving overseas. But there is little evidence of bipartisan cooperation on the tax plan thus far in Washington.  Whether you are a Democrat or a Republican, if you re serious 