BERATZHAUSEN, Germany -- The subject line read: "Announcing a personal change." The U.S. Army soldier took a deep breath before hitting the button that sent the email to more than 200 fellow troops. "All considered, I am, and have been, traversing what is essentially a personal matter, but is something I must address publicly," the email stated. "I am transgender." The April 13 email officially ended the secret that burned inside Capt. Jennifer Sims, who was known as Jonathan Sims. But the feeling of relief swiftly turned to unease last week after President Donald Trump tweeted that transgender troops were no longer welcome. After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow...... ....Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming..... "I read the tweet while I was at work and you know it was devastating because I still have work to do and here I am reading basically what sounds like the president of the United States -- who is the commander in chief, he is the ultimate boss of the military -- telling me and anybody else that is transgender that we are fired," Sims said. Pentagon officials say the policy allowing transgender troops will remain unchanged without official White House guidance. But for Sims, the uncertainty has been upsetting. "So in the initial moments after the tweet, I saw myself forced into the state that I was in before I started transitioning -- a state of depression, exhaustion and inability to enjoy things," said Sims, 28, who spoke to The Associated Press on her own behalf and not on that of the Army. The reversal of the Obama administration policy that allows transgender people to serve openly and receive military medical coverage for transitioning from one gender to another also could affect her physically. Sims has been on hormone therapy by her military doctor since November. If she interrupts the treatment, her body will revert to being male. "It would be very difficult to have to go through that," said Sims, who is based at Hohenfels, a U.S. Army garrison in the German state of Bavaria. Growing up in Minnesota and Florida, Sims, a high school football player, never felt comfortable being male. The son and grandson of military veterans quietly came to terms with identifying as a woman a year after joining the Army R.O.T.C., but outwardly kept it a secret "because I wanted to continue serving," Sims said. Sims stopped socializing, feeling drained over worries about being masculine enough, and instead focused on work, serving in Afghanistan, Indonesia and Germany. Her sister, Natasha Sims, 24, said she saw "emptiness" in her eyes. After the Defense Department announced in 2015 that it was considering allowing transgender troops to serve openly, Sims told Natasha and their parents. When the policy became official in June 2016, Sims said "it was the best day of my life really." Sims made an appointment with the behavioral health office, was given a diagnosis of gender dysphoria and started hormone therapy. Five months later, she decided to shed her secret, first telling her closest colleagues, Capt. Brandon Shorter and another infantry officer. They were at a loss for words. After Shorter got home, he texted Sims about how that was brave. "Infantry officers are best described as brutish. So Capt. Sims pulled me and another brute aside face to face. That took a lot of courage and that's the first thing that went through my mind, mixed in with surprise," Shorter said. Sims then announced the "personal change" to more than 200 other troops. It was not an emotional email. The seasoned military officer wrote how a lifetime of discomfort had peaked three years ago. Sims then outlined the steps she would take to fully transition to a woman. "Officially in DEERS, my gender will remain male until my medical transition is complete, which means I will still comport to male standards and use male facilities," she wrote, referring to the acronym for the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System, a kind of HR database for U.S. military personnel. "While it is my preference for people to refer to me with female pronouns, if you are uncomfortable with this, there is no requirement to do so, I only respectfully request you refer to me by my proper name, Captain Sims," the email stated. Sims wrote that she will be more productive not having to "live two personas." The chairman of the joint chiefs of staff says transgender people can continue serving for now in the United States military. President Trump pro... Five soldiers sent emails back with words of encouragement. Most didn't respond. For a few days, there were murmurs of "hey did you see the email?" Some said they would not use the feminine pronoun until Sims' Army paperwork made it official. The force had just undergone training explaining what was expected in regards to transgender soldiers. Sims is the first transgender person Shorter has known. The unit is basically full of "young men wanting to chew on nails and prove how tough they are," Shorter said. Only about eight women are among the 500 soldiers in the battalion. Shorter had a lot of questions "being naturally curious and wanting to be a good friend because we didn't really have a personal relationship. He's, excuse me, she's -- see I still slip up sometimes -- a single captain. I'm married with two daughters. Our lives are different." Shorter, 32, of Alanson, Michigan, describes himself as conservative. He said he struggles with his beliefs about what's appropriate. An assistant operations officer for the battalion, Shorter is concerned about how Sims cannot deploy while undergoing medical procedures. But Shorter, speaking on his own behalf and not that of the Army, said he would be "incredibly disappointed" if Sims, the best signal officer he has seen, were kicked out. After Trump's tweet, a few soldiers, including Shorter, asked Sims how she was doing. She didn't know what to say. Her pills will run out in three months. Doctors recommend 12 months of hormone therapy before surgery. The cost of her surgery can run close to $50,000, which Sims was expecting the military would help cover. "I had waited so long just to be able to tell the world this is who I am," Sims said.