Vice President Mike Pence and HHS Sec. Tom Price hosted a round-table discussion with a dozen grassroots leaders on Friday to put additional pressure on Republican senators as they gear up for a procedural vote sometime next week on legislation that would repeal Obamacare. Tea party conservatives push Senate GOP for full ACA repeal Four days after the Senate failed to bring the second version of the Better Care Reconciliation Act to the floor, Pence called the meeting with the grassroots leaders "historic."  As @POTUS Trump said, inaction is not an option. Obamacare is collapsing all across the country. It's time for Congress to act. pic.twitter.com/fnEkJcsBwo Pence remained optimistic, telling the group that only a "few votes" stood in the way of the president repealing former President Obama's landmark 2010 health care bill. Pence pleaded with those at the meeting to rally their bases across the country over the weekend to lobby for the legislation.  "We just urge you in the days that remain between now and this vote early next week to reach out to people across this country and let them now that we're close," Pence said. It may only be a "few votes," but when the margin in the Senate is as slim as it is, it's almost certain that a few is too many. If Sen. John McCain, who is recovering from brain surgery, has not returned to the Senate by Tuesday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will only be able to lose one other Republican senator. Any more than one, and the vote will fail. Senate leaders are pushing for a health care vote next Tuesday, but some lawmakers are confused on which bill they would actually be voting on. P... The vice president continued: "Every one of the groups that are gathered here today and the millions that you represent are here to speak with one voice to say to the congress it's time to vote. It's time to get on with a debate to repeal and replace Obamacare."  Price said that insurance-market complications in some parts of the country "demand an act of Congress." He claimed insurance providers will be closely following any develops next week, even though the procedural vote is likely dead-on-arrival.  "There are decisions that will be made over the next few weeks in states all across this land about what 2018 looks like from an insurance standpoint," Price said. "And the decision that is made in the next few days in this town will dictate and determine what those decisions will be."  The groups that attended Friday's meeting included: Chamber of Commerce, National Federal of Independent Businesses, Faith & Freedom Coalition, Concerned Women for America, March for Life, Club for Growth, National Taxpayers Union, American Conservative Union, Heritage Action for America, National Federation for Republican Women, Students for Life, Susan B. Anthony List.  Despite the political obstacles facing Senate leadership in getting a bill passed, Pence remained optimistic and echoed President Trump's sentiments from a meeting with GOP senators on Wednesday.  "Inaction is not an option," Pence said. "Frankly, as the president said, any senator who doesn't vote to begin the debate is essentially telling the American people that they are fine with Obamacare, and that's just unacceptable." 