Donald Trump Jr.'s series of emails regarding a meeting with a Kremlin-linked lawyer -- and the meeting itself -- fall under the mandate of the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election meddling and any ties between Russia and the Trump campaign, CBS News' Andres Triay and Pat Milton report.  Both the emails and meeting are expected to be looked at by investigators as part of the overall collusion investigation.   The emails, which Donald Trump Jr. released on Tuesday, confirm he was told the coordination of a meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer was a part of the Russian government's support for his father. They also referred to information that would "incriminate" Hillary Clinton. "This is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government's support for Mr. Trump -- helped along by Aras and Emin," publicist Rob Goldstone wrote in an email dated June 3, 2016. "I can also send this info to your father via Rhona, but it is ultra sensitive so wanted to send to you first," the email says. Trump Jr. responded, "Thanks Rob I appreciate that. I am on the road at the moment but perhaps I just speak to Emin first. Seems we have some time and if it's what you say I love it especially later in the summer. Could we do a call first thing next week when I am back?" Trump Jr. and his brother-in-law Jared Kushner, as well as former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, participated in the meeting, which was held at Trump Tower in June 2016. White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders denied Monday that any collusion took place, in a White House press briefing. "I think the point is that we've tried to make every single time, today and then, and will continue to make in those statements is that there was simply no collusion that they keep trying to create that there was," Sanders said. She went on to read a one-line statement from the president in which he defended Trump Jr., reading "My son is a high-quality person and I applaud his transparency." 