Five months into President Trump's presidency, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Tuesday said he has never spoken with Mr. Trump about whether he believes Russians interfered in the 2016 election.  Spicer -- asked for a simple yes or no answer as to whether the president believes Russian government interfered in the 2016 election -- said he's never had the opportunity to discuss that question with the president.  "I have not sat down and talked to him about that specific thing. Obviously, we've been dealing with a lot of other issues today," Spicer told reporters during a White House press briefing.  Pressed again for an answer -- given that the heads of multiple agencies in the intelligence community, including former FBI Director James Comey, have said Russians definitely interfered in the election -- he had a similar response.   Mr. Trump continues to be skeptical of any Russian interference in the 2016 election. Asked during a late April interview on CBS News' "Face the Nation" whether he believes Russians meddled in the election, Mr. Trump said, "That, I don't know. I don't know." He said he could "go along with Russia," but that it also, "Could've been China, could've been a lot of groups." The Russia-related story Mr. Trump has flat-out denied is whether there was any connection between Russians and his campaign, an investigation he has repeatedly decried on Twitter as a "witch hunt."  Spicer also said he doesn't know if Mr. Trump has seen the health care legislation senators are drafting, even though it's expected to be brought up for a vote within days.  "I don't know if he's seen the legislation or not," Spicer said. President Trump ignored shouted questions Monday about whether he's a target of the federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 p... Spicer did have an update for reporters on the question of whether or not President Trump has any recordings of his conversations with Comey, which he mentioned in a Tweet last month. "The president has said he will make an announcement on this, I expect it this week, and so when he's ready to make the announcement, I'll let you know," Spicer said. It's unclear what level of communication Spicer currently has with Mr. Trump, as the White House press secretary seeks a different role that would limit his presence in the daily press briefings that have made him such a prominent face of the administration.  A senior administration official and three people familiar with the potential changes said Spicer has discussed taking a more senior communications role in the White House, according to the Associated Press. The three people said Spicer has reached out to possible successors. 