For Washington visitors who dislike the president -- and for his most ardent fans -- no summertime trip to Washington is complete without a stop at the Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, according to social media. Protesters worldwide have taken to the streets since the inauguration of President Donald Trump For those who oppose President Trump, there have been dozens of protests small and large since his inauguration. Those who missed the parade are dropping by now -- social media posts show visitors outside the hotel making crude gestures. Eleven such pictures posted to the hotel's Instagram location in just the past week. But for fans of the president, the hotel lobby presents the best chance to see the celebrities of the Trump universe.  In what's become Washington's worst kept secret, if you step inside the hotel's crystal-adorned central atrium, you've got a pretty good chance of running into the cast of the world's most famous political reality show. Here's the atrium: (CENTRAL ATRIUM OF THE NEW TRUMP INTERNATIONAL HOTEL) (ON PENNSYLVANIA AVE NW WASHINGTON DC) (JUST DOWN THE STREET FROM THE WHITE HOUSE) !!! pic.twitter.com/uWU4jtjhoB Just last week, Kellyanne Conway dropped by. Kellyanne Conway: "We'll win VA next time." Us: "Not if we have anything to do with it" A post shared by Shannon Kane (@shannongkane) on Jun 7, 2017 at 10:07am PDT And here's White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer in early May. Meet with #seanmicheal #spicer #whitehouse #spokesperson #spokesman #washingtondc #visitedc A post shared by yo.m (@yo.travel.world) on May 5, 2017 at 6:24pm PDT Apprentice alum-turned-White House aide Omarosa posted pictures of her wedding at the Trump Hotel as she made her way through the lobby. Congratulations to #Omarosa and #JohnAllenNewman on finally tying the knot. The couple had to move their #marriage from Florida to Washington, DC after receiving #deaththreats and on Saturday, the two got the job done   at the #TrumpHotel   no doubt. Omarosa, who is currently working for President #DonaldTrump, and Newman, a pastor, wed in a morning ceremony. The exchange of vows was followed by a brunch and reception. 70 to 100 people were said to be in attendance, but #POTUS was not among them. A post shared by   City Alert   (@cityalert) on Apr 9, 2017 at 5:26pm PDT A scan of Instagram posts from the Trump-owned hotel shows that one of the most frequent visitors from the Trump orbit is former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who always seems ready for a selfie. Always nice seeing Rudy Giuliani in D.C. #AmericasMayor   #ItalianAmerican   #rudygiuliani A post shared by Tony Piazza (@tony_piazza_) on Mar 24, 2017 at 5:19am PDT Hanging with Rudy! A post shared by John Perrotto (@jjp323) on Mar 6, 2017 at 9:08pm PST Also spotted in the pantheon of GOP celebrities -- former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. Georgia temsilciler meclisi  yesi, eski senat r, Trump' n dan manlar ndan Newt Gingrich ile her konuda anla t k.   A post shared by C neyt Yal nk l  (@cuneytyalinkilic) on May 23, 2017 at 3:13pm PDT And former Senator and GOP presidential nominee Bob Dole. What an incredible honor it was to get a surprise visit from former Senator Bob Dole at brunch today!  A post shared by @briibrii19 on May 7, 2017 at 2:12pm PDT And just a few days ago Senator Rand Paul dropped by. Senator Rand Paul and me. A post shared by Derek (@derekmke) on Jun 9, 2017 at 7:48pm PDT Even the manager of the Trump Hotel, Mickael Damelincourt, has now attained sufficient celebrity status to be a a sought-after selfie for tourists.  Great to meet @mdamelincourt today at @TrumpWashingtonDC! Thanks for the wonderful hospitality!  A post shared by Thomas L. Knight Jr. (@thomaslknightjr) on May 11, 2017 at 3:01pm PDT Some really lucky Trump fans get to see actual Trump family members like Lara Trump in mid-May. Double bonus during my #DC trip today - got to see my brother and my cousin!   A post shared by Lara Trump (@laraleatrump) on May 15, 2017 at 2:45pm PDT Or Eric Trump on a separate visit: Jameson chatting with @erictrump  . So fun! #havingablast #memories #springbreak2017 A post shared by Joy Kenerly (@joykenerly) on Mar 8, 2017 at 4:15pm PST And Ivanka Trump, who's now a local. When your neighbor @ivankatrump recognizes you in the throbbing crowd  #kalorama #maga @realdonaldtrump A post shared by Quin Woodward Pu (@quinwoodwardpu) on Feb 25, 2017 at 7:27pm PST But the top prize is seeing the president himself who greets his patrons and likely more than once unwittingly photobombed, with the first lady. Just a little #dinnerwiththepresident A post shared by Brianne Webb (@brianney) on Apr 22, 2017 at 6:00pm PDT One excited hotel guest posted that they came to Washington hoping to see Mr. Trump but they struck out on the White House tour.  So they tried to increase their chances of seeing him by staying at the Trump Hotel. Okay y'all. I wanted to give my parents the best DC weekend ever and especially because it's their anniversary. They really wanted to see Trump and I told them I would try my best (but like yeah right). We looked all over DC: went on the garden tour and looked all over the WH lawn but missed him. Swung by the Oval Office but he wasn't there. Went to the Press Pool but it was empty. Went to the Capitol Steps show and the guy who played Trump was amazing but just wasn't the real Trump. My parents thought they would up their chances of seeing him by staying at Trump Hotel (and it was mom's surprise gift from dad). Casually on Saturday night me, mom, dad and Charlie thought we would eat dessert at Trump Hotel before calling it a night. Little did we know that Donald, Melania, Ivanka, and a whole crew of folks had the exact same idea. This is exactly where we were sitting and how close we were to the President! He looked right at the four of us, waved, and said "Thank you everybody!" Happy Anniversary mom and dad  What a great memory!!! A post shared by Ashley McNew (@ash_macc) on Apr 24, 2017 at 10:25am PDT As luck would have it, they caught Mr. Trump during one of the three times he's gone to his hotel since the inauguration -- always to rounds of applause. Guess who I met? The most powerful man in the world. The US  president Donald Trump. @potusadjtrump Happy Earth Day! #washington#washingtondc#life#surprise#travelling#president#unitedstates#surprise#travelwithme#hkgirl A post shared by Mikki Lui (@mikki_lui) on Apr 22, 2017 at 8:19pm PDT Trump tourists are probably even more likely to run into the Trump administration officials living at the Trump Hotel -- like his top economic adviser, Gary Cohn, and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. 