His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. After President Trump signed an executive order in January and vowed to strip federal funds from "sanctuary" cities, Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez decided to honor federal authorities' requests to hold county prisoners for deportation. Trump thanked Gimenez in a tweet that contained a video of Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions speaking Wednesday in Miami, where he denounced Chicago for its defiant  sanctuary city  stance, again blaming the city s surge in crime on policies designed to protect immigrants. Although the link between illegal immigration and rising crime is weak   studies show immigrants tend to commit crimes at lower rates than other people   Sessions suggested Miami s policies contributed to a dramatic drop in homicides.  The same Independence Day weekend when Chicago suffered more than 100 shootings and 15 homicides, Miami-Dade also had a historic number of shooting deaths   zero,  Sessions said. He said the Trump administration would not continue giving money to cities  that actively undermine the safety and efficacy of federal law enforcement and actively frustrate efforts to reduce crime in their cities.   So if voters in Chicago are concerned about losing federal grant money: Call your mayor,  Sessions said. The dangers of immigrant crime are a major concern for Trump s base of voters, and the issue was a favorite theme of his campaign. Sessions, a hard-line advocate for reducing immigration while serving in the U.S. Senate, has made the cause a top priority for the Justice Department Read more   This post contains reporting by staff writer Joseph Tanfani