His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. America s top business executives may have bristled over President Trump's ban on refugees, his withdrawal from the Paris climate accord and his decision to bar transgender Americans from the military. But it wasn t until the embattled president all but defended white supremacists in the aftermath of the deadly clashes over the weekend in Charlottesville, Va., that the country s corporate elite decided they had had enough. By Wednesday, so many executives had resigned from Trump s economic advisory and manufacturing councils, including the heads of General Electric Co., Intel Corp. and Campbell Soup Co., that the president announced on Twitter that he was disbanding the panels. Some members pushed back on Trump s suggestion that the disbandment was the president s decision. JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief Jamie Dimon said the economic advisory council, known formally as the Strategic and Policy Forum, had already decided to end on its own. Members began discussing dissolving the group after watching Trump's news conference Tuesday, according to a source familiar with the matter speaking on condition of anonymity. Forum members organized a call for 11:30 a.m. Eastern time Wednesday to survey who wanted to stay in or out. The group overwhelmingly sought to shut the forum down, according to the source. Leaders of consumer brands expressed concern about how their images could be tarnished, while heads of other corporations feared the effect Trump was having on the business climate. The group informed Trump of their decision, who agreed and posted his tweet, the source said. The dissolution of the councils marks corporate America s strongest repudiation yet of Trump, who ascended to the White House touting himself as the first CEO president. Read more