His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. Hours after a van plowed through a crowd in Barcelona, Spain, and left at least 12 people dead, President Trump tweeted condemnation of the attack and quickly followed with a statement about U.S. Army Gen. John Joseph Pershing that historians describe as urban legend. The full claim, which Trump repeated several times during his 2016 presidential campaign, is that in the aftermath of the Philippine-American War of 1899-1902, Pershing had his men dip 50 bullets in pig blood and use them to kill 49 Muslim prisoners. The survivor was told to relay the experience to others. The story claims that terrorism decreased for decades. If true, the story would constitute a war crime under U.S. law, which prohibits execution of prisoners. The tale has circulated across the Internet for years. Trump told it in February 2016 during a speech to supporters in North Charleston, S.C., in which he lauded the benefits of heavy-handed interrogation techniques.  "He took 50 bullets, and he dipped them in pigs  blood. And he had his men load his rifles, and he lined up the 50 people, and they shot 49 of those people. And the 50th person, he said: 'You go back to your people, and you tell them what happened.' And for 25 years, there wasn t a problem. OK? Twenty-five years, there wasn t a problem," Trump told the crowd. Two months later during a speech that criticized President Obama's acceptance of Middle Eastern war refugees into the U.S., Trump told the same story to supporters in Costa Mesa. This time, he altered the number of problem-free years from 25 to 42. In a 2013 edition of Pershing's memoir, a letter from Maj. Gen. J. Franklin Bell to Pershing was added in the footnote. The letter described a long "custom to bury [insurgents] with pigs when they kill Americans." Bell called the tactic "a good plan." The letter does indicate that pig blood was at one time used, or at the very least discussed, as an intimidation tactic against Muslim fighters, since Islam considers pigs unclean. But there's no evidence that Pershing   who historians describe as less brutal than his predecessors   ever used such a technique. "This story is a fabrication and has long been discredited," Brian McAllister Linn, a Texas A&M University historian, told Politifact. "I am amazed it is still making the rounds." Read more