His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. President Trump attacked two Republican lawmakers, Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Jeff Flake of Arizona, in tweets Thursday morning, deepening his feud with members of his party. Both men got the sort of unkind brands Trump favors: "Flake Jeff Flake" and "Publicity seeking Lindsey Graham." Strikingly, the president offered a semi-endorsement of Kelli Ward, a former Arizona state senator who plans to challenge Flake in a primary next year   a stand that would put him at odds not only with Flake, but with the state's senior senator, John McCain, whom Trump jabbed, not for the first time, earlier this week. Presidents almost never get involved in primary battles against incumbents of their own parties   when they have, the efforts have usually ended badly for the White House. But Flake opposed Trump last year and angered him further in recent weeks with the publication of his new book, which sharply criticizes both Trump and Republicans who have supported him. Trump's jabs come two days after he again attacked McCain and after last week's series of slams against the Republican leader of the Senate, Mitch McConnell. In this case, Trump's intervention likely will deepen his fight with two senators at once, McCain and Flake  just as the president has, perhaps not coincidentally, scheduled a political rally in their state for Tuesday, in Phoenix.  Last month, after McCain was diagnosed with brain cancer, Ward publicly called on him to step down from the Senate, saying he would die soon and that Gov. Doug Ducey should consider her as a replacement. She ran against McCain and lost in 2016 in a bitter primary in which she said he was too old to be reelected. Ward is a favorite of a family of wealthy, deeply conservative, Republicans donors, the Mercers, who have been major financial backers of Trump and also of his strategist, Stephen K. Bannon. White House officials have met with Ward and other candidates who might oppose Flake, and White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders recently made a point of leaving open the possibility that Trump would get involved in the primary. Further deepening the feud, Trump also took a swipe at McCain's closest ally in the Senate, Graham, calling him a "publicity seeking" lawmaker. Trump criticized Graham for what the senator had said about Trump's remarks on the violence last weekend in Charlottesville, Va. Heather Heyer was killed when she was struck by a car driven into a crowd of people on Saturday who were protesting white supremacists in Charlottesville. The reference to Graham's "trouncing" presumably referred to Graham's poor showing when he briefly sought the GOP presidential nomination last year. He was easily reelected to the Senate in 2014.  In a statement, Graham responded that Trump's praise of Heyer was "very nice and appropriate. Well done." "However, because of the manner in which you handled the Charlottesville tragedy, you are now receiving praise from some of the most racist and hate-filled individuals and groups in our country." In a separate tweet, Trump accused "the Fake News" of distorting "what I say about hate, bigotry, etc. Shame!"