His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. President Trump on Monday answered two days of bipartisan furor over his initial response to deadly protests in Charlottesville, Va., with a statement for the first time explicitly blaming white supremacists for the  racist violence  over the weekend. But in a tweet sent hours later, Trump appeared to suggest that he'd spoken out only to appease his critics and seemed frustrated that his remarks hadn't done more to silence them. "Realize once again that the #Fake News Media will never be satisfied," Trump lamented, calling members of the media "truly bad people!" The president s statement on Charlottesville was a hastily arranged do-over that implicitly acknowledged the need to stanch the self-inflicted damage his first reaction had caused him and his administration. Criticism and outrage had continued to build, including among Republicans, to Trump s Saturday remarks blaming  many sides,  in effect lumping together for fault the anti-racism counter-protesters with the gun-wielding white supremacy groups Trump declined to name. But the president appeared to resent that such a do-over was warranted. After reading a brief statement from a teleprompter at the White House, he pivoted and left, ignoring reporters  shouted questions, including several asking whether he regretted his delay in specifically blaming the racists. During an unrelated announcement on trade later in the day, a reporter asked why he had taken two days to condemn the hate groups by name.  They ve been condemned. They have been condemned,  Trump snapped. When asked about a Monday news conference that the White House had announced and then canceled, Trump insisted he had already held one. Then, when the reporter persisted, Trump labeled him  fake news  as he strode from the room. Trump's outburst and later tweet did little to alleviate criticism from those who suggested that he had been less than eager to denounce the white supremacists but that he had felt forced to do so. Read more   This post contains reporting from Noah Bierman and Alex Wigglesworth