His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. The chief executive of pharmaceutical giant Merck & Co. publicly resigned from a White House manufacturing council on Monday, declaring he felt  a responsibility to take a stand against intolerance and extremism.  The move by Kenneth Frazier, one of corporate America s leading African American executives, came after President Trump was criticized for not explicitly condemning white supremacists after violent clashes with counter-protesters turned deadly in Charlottesville, Va., on Saturday. Trump quickly lashed out at Frazier on Twitter. About four hours later, Trump delivered a statement from the White House in which he denounced the hate groups at the center of Saturday s violence. "Racism is evil and those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans," Trump said. But he hadn t forgotten about Merck. Later Monday, Trump slammed the company again on Twitter, calling it  a leader in higher & higher drug prices while at the same time taking jobs out of the U.S.  Frazier was among more than two dozen corporate executives and union officials advising the Trump administration on boosting American manufacturing. Now he has become the latest high-profile CEO to leave a White House business council in recent weeks in protest of Trump s statements or actions. After Trump s initial comments in the wake of the deadly Charlottesville protest, blaming the violence  on many sides  without specifically denouncing the white nationalists who were at the center of the clashes, Merck posted a statement on Twitter from Frazier announcing his resignation from the council. Many on Twitter noted that Trump responded more quickly and specifically to Frazier s resignation than he did to the violence in Charlottesville. Read more