His tweets have the power to shape international relations, send stock prices up   or down   and galvanize the American public. We're watching how Donald Trump is using this platform of unfettered communication now that he s commander in chief. Here is everything Trump has tweeted since he was sworn in as 45th president of the United States. In many cases, we look at what he was reacting to and whether what he said was accurate. And, as much as possible, we'll relate what else was going on at the time. Check back for more as Trump continues to tweet. With a strong push from President Trump, Alabama Sen. Luther Strange secured a runoff spot late Tuesday in the Republican primary for his seat. The senator now faces top vote-getter Roy Moore, the outspoken former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court. Moore s horseback ride to the polls Tuesday demonstrated the political showmanship that has made him a favorite among Alabama voters. With about four-fifths of precincts reporting results late Tuesday, Moore had 43% of the vote, compared with 31% for Strange. With no candidate achieving the 50% needed to secure the nomination, the Republican runoff is set for Sept. 26. The race exposed the potential reach as well as the limits of Trump s influence, even in a state where the president remains hugely popular. Voters consistently preferred Moore, despite a strong White House endorsement for Strange, who took over the seat this year when Jeff Sessions, the state s longtime senator, resigned to become U.S. attorney general. But Trump s support appears to have at least enabled Strange to avoid the embarrassment of not securing the second spot.  We re on to the runoff,  Moore tweeted as the Associated Press called the race about two hours after polls closed.  Time for conservatives across Alabama to unite and deliver a knockout punch to the establishment!  Trump s investment in the race was never a sure bet in the primary. And it may not be one that can be easily replicated in other contested Republican primaries in Nevada and Arizona, where the president is far less popular. Read more