Last Updated Aug 16, 2017 11:25 AM EDT In what was supposed to be a planned statement on his administration's infrastructure plans, President Trump derailed and placed blame "on many sides" for the violence over the weekend in Charlottesville, Virginia, and?pointed criticisms at what he called the "alt-left" groups that "came swinging with clubs." "You had a group on one side that was bad and you had a group on the other side that was also very violent," Mr. Trump said at Trump Tower in New York City on Tuesday. "No one wants to say that, but I'll say it right now: You had a group on the other side that came charging in without a permit and they were very, very violent." The president drew criticism from both sides of the aisle for not immediately or specifically calling out the white supremacists, neo-Nazis and hate groups present at the "Unite the Right" rally on Saturday. The?violence that resulted from the rally left one woman dead and injured 19 more after a car rammed into a crowd of people present at the rally. President Trump is facing criticism -- including from members of the Republican party -- for his initial response blaming both the left and right... On Monday, Mr. Trump renounced the deadly events in Charlottesville, saying that he and his administration "condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence, on many sides." But his comments Tuesday backtracked that statement, diffusing some of the ?blame for the violent occurrence. "What about the alt-left that came charging at the alt-right -- do they have any semblance of guilt?" Mr. Trump said. "They came charging, clubs in hand, swinging clubs." While he did specifically call the suspected driving attacker "a murder," his divisive comments have warranted a slew of reactions from lawmakers: President Trump, this moment demands moral clarity, not appeasement of neo-Nazis and white supremacists. The alt-right is all wrong. As a Jew, as an American, as a human, words cannot express my disgust and disappointment. This is not my President. There are not “many sides” to a terrorist attack. White nationalists fueled this attack and they must be held accountable. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: there are not “many sides” to this. pic.twitter.com/AosWtqVt3k No words. https://t.co/pCSYUE5iZN There are not ‘many sides’ to blame for #Charlottesville. There is right and wrong. White nationalism, hatred and bigotry are wrong. -SB Blaming "both sides" for #Charlottesville?! No. Back to relativism when dealing with KKK, Nazi sympathizers, white supremacists? Just no. Seems like a good time to re-up these remarks --> https://t.co/TVQEND6gfr Trump just repeated his previous views of the moral equivalence of white supremacists and civil rights protesters in #Charlottesville. .@realDonaldTrump yet again, you stood up for neo-Nazis and white supremacists today. Yet again, you've failed to live up to your office. The #WhiteSupremacy groups will see being assigned only 50% of blame as a win.We can not allow this old evil to be resurrected 6/6 This is simple: we must condemn and marginalize white supremacist groups, not encourage and embolden them. It’s a sad day in American history when the President of the United States defends white supremacists. Mr. President, for the good of the country, stop defending the actions of white supremacists in #Charlottesville. The President of the United States just went on TV & defended ppl attending a white supremacist rally of neoNazis & klansmen. Just sickening There is only one side that brought brutality, nazi flags, and swastikas to Charlottesville. https://t.co/Zh2M0uKt29 When it comes to Nazism, white supremacy & domestic terrorism, the only sides are good vs. evil. @realdonaldtrump, which side are you on? The President of the United States just defended neo-Nazis and blamed those who condemn their racism and hate. This is sick. Yes, @POTUS, there's 2 sides to Charlottesville. 1 is right & 1 is wrong. 1 is full of hate & 1 stands up to hate. You're on the wrong side. Charlottesville violence was fueled by one side: white supremacists spreading racism, intolerance & intimidation. Those are the facts. Wow, what a disgrace. There is only one side. No one, especially not the leader of the free world, should ever tolerate violent racists. Did you really just compare neo-Nazis & white supremacists to the other side? @realDonaldTrump, there is one evil side here. By saying he is not taking sides, Donald Trump clearly is. When David Duke and white supremacists cheer, you’re doing it very very wrong. There is only one side. White supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazis, & hate groups have no place in our country. The President needs to say that. Off prompter and in his own words, the president gives comfort to white supremacists and neo-Nazis. Absolutely horrifying. All Americans can & must shape the course of history, consistent with the time-honored values of justice, equality, liberty & tolerance. Donald Trump is not the real America. All Americans should condemn these disgusting, indefensible comments. Let us unite. There aren't "2 sides" when it comes to hate. Only right & wrong. It's shameful that @RealDonaldTrump can't find the courage to say it. The violence in Charlottesville was not caused by the "alt-left," (whatever that may be). It was caused by Neo-Nazis and white supremacists. The response to this ideology of hate & bigotry, & the act of domestic terrorism, should be simple & united condemnation without ambiguity. FYI, after today, White House staff have effectively been folded into the white supremacy propaganda operation. Your choice - stay or go. Teleprompter @POTUS condemns white supremacy, unscripted @POTUS blames "both sides." No one should need a teleprompter to do the right thing When someone shows you who they are, you believe them. Trump is again letting white supremacists off the hook for #Charlottesville violence. There are no 'fine people' anywhere carrying swastikas and wearing Klansman robes. https://t.co/r7P2SKYbc8 POTUS can stand with the country against hate, or he can embrace and exploit hate. Cannot do both. Disgraceful.?https://t.co/o5Ol2oqNUQ Must explicitly condemn hateful, racist white supremacists who violently attacked & intimidated in #Charlottesville. No other way around it. This shouldn't be hard. Condemn hate. Condemn neo Nazis and white supremicists. Condemn domestic terrorism. Period. We must be clear. White supremacy is repulsive. This bigotry is counter to all this country stands for. There can be no moral ambiguity. There's no moral equivalency between racists & Americans standing up to defy hate& bigotry. The President of the United States should say so The two leaders issued a joint statement on Wednesday, saying "America must always reject racial bigotry, anti-Semitism, and hatred in all forms." They added, "As we pray for Charlottesville, we are reminded of the fundamental truths recorded by that city's most prominent citizen in the Declaration of Independence: we are all created equal and endowed by our Creator with unalienable rights. We know these truths to be everlasting because we have seen the decency and greatness of our country."