Last Updated Jul 1, 2017 8:05 PM EDT President Trump -- amid a struggling health care debate on Capitol Hill and ongoing tensions with North Korea -- began Independence Day weekend with a series of tweets bashing "dumb as a rock" MSNBC "Morning Joe" co-host Mika Brzezinski and suggesting that states refusing to hand over voter information to his voter fraud commission might have something to "hide." From his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, Mr. Trump began tweeting at 8:44 a.m., first wishing a "Happy Canada Day" to Canadian prime minister and "new found friend" Justin Trudeau. But from there, the tweets took a harsher tone. Even as aides like White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders complain the media isn't focusing on policy, the president continued his tirade against "crazy" Joe Scarborough and "dumb as a rock" Brzezinski. The president ignited a firestorm on Thursday when he insulted the host's intelligence and appearance. Crazy Joe Scarborough and dumb as a rock Mika are not bad people, but their low rated show is dominated by their NBC bosses. Too bad! As more-than-20-states-reject-voter-fraud-commissions-request-for-dataEditUnlink ">more than 20 states refuse to hand over potentially sensitive voter information to the president's voter fraud commission, Mr. Trump suggested those states might be trying to hide something. The commission is seeking the name, party affiliation, voting history, last four Social Security numbers and address of voters in all states.  Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide? The president also suggested MSNBC host Greta Van Susteren was fired because she "refused" to go along with "'Trump hate.'" Van Susteren had been with the cable channel for less than six months.  Word is that @Greta Van Susteren was let go by her out of control bosses at @NBC & @Comcast because she refused to go along w/ 'Trump hate!' Mr. Trump also lashed out at other media outlets, saying he was "extremely pleased" CNN was exposed as "garbage." Three CNN employees resigned this week after the network retracted a single-source story claiming a Russian bank with close ties to a Trump associate was under Senate investigation. Mr. Trump regularly calls CNN "fake news," along with other outlets.  I am extremely pleased to see that @CNN has finally been exposed as #FakeNews and garbage journalism. It's about time! After tweeting links to his weekly address and then a link to the Celebrate Freedom Center's concert at the Kennedy Center, he turned his attention back to the media, particularly CNN.  The FAKE & FRAUDULENT NEWS MEDIA is working hard to convince Republicans and others I should not use social media - but remember, I won.... ....the 2016 election with interviews, speeches and social media. I had to beat #FakeNews, and did. We will continue to WIN! I am thinking about changing the name #FakeNews CNN to #FraudNewsCNN! My use of social media is not Presidential - it s MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL. Make America Great Again! He also pinned the CNN tweet to the top of his profile.  The president will return from Bedminster briefly Saturday evening for a concert at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C., before returning to his private resort until Monday.  The tweets about Brezezinski distracted from conversations about health care and recent visits by foreign leaders. South Korean President Moon Jae-in spent two days in Washington to discuss trade and the North Korean nuclear missile threat with Mr. Trump. The president has avoided multiple questions from the press about his tweets lashing out against the "Morning Joe" co-hosts. 