Last Updated Jul 19, 2017 12:36 PM EDT As President Trump approaches the six month mark of his presidency, he boasted about his legislative successes at a "Made in America week" event hosted by the White House on Monday. "We've signed more bills -- and I'm talking about through the legislature -- than any president, ever," Mr. Trump said. "For a while, Harry Truman had us. And now, I think, we have everybody." While Mr. Trump has signed 42 bills into law during the first few months of his presidency, more than former president Barack Obama's 39, he still falls slightly behind the legislative pace of the past six presidencies, who signed an average of 43 bills in this timeframe, the New York Times reported. In the first half-year of his presidency, Jimmy Carter signed 70 bills. In this same period, Bill Clinton signed 50 and George W. Bush signed 20. In just the first 100 days of his first term, former president Truman signed 55 bills and Franklin Delano Roosevelt, facing the effects of the Great Depression signed 76 bills in a massive 100-day push. By comparison, on Mr. Trump's 100th day on April 29 he had signed 29 bills into law. Looking at the substance of Mr. Trump's legislation reveals that of the 42 bills he has signed, 15 of these bills simply reverse Obama-era regulation. Others, while successfully passed, are more standard than revolutionary. Within this category, which the Times labeled as "routine lawmaking" and "bureaucratic tweaks," Mr. Trump has signed 19 bills, such as the "Modernizing Government Travel Act," which updates technical regulations that previously prevented lawmakers from being reimbursed for Uber and Lyft expenses. On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump promised to fight for measures designed to improve the lives of military veterans. Thus far, Mr. Trump has signed four bills benefiting vets and their families. Take, for example, the "Act to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014," which extends Obama-era regulations allowing some vets to visit private doctors and improves how deductibles and copays get processed. The remaining four bills signed by the president focus on science and technology. The "Promoting Women in Entrepreneurship Act" is designed "to authorize the National Science Foundation to support entrepreneurial programs for women," according to language in the bill.  