Last Updated Jul 20, 2017 11:26 AM EDT Donald Trump Jr., former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, and the president's son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner are all scheduled to appear before Senate committees next week.  Trump Jr. and Manafort are scheduled to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee Wednesday, and Kushner will be interviewed by the Senate Intelligence Committee Monday, CBS News has confirmed. Their appearances come as questions continue to mount about their June 2016 meeting with Russians in Trump Tower.  "As Mr. Kushner has been saying since March, he has been and is prepared to voluntarily cooperate and provide whatever information he has on the investigations to Congress," Kushner's lawyer, Abbe Lowell, told CBS News. "Working with and being responsive to the schedules of the committees, we have arranged Mr. Kushner's interview with the Senate for July 24. He will continue to cooperate and appreciates the opportunity to assist in putting this matter to rest." The Senate Judiciary Committee also demanded a slew of documents from Trump Jr. and Manafort for any documents about Russian attempts to get dirt on Hillary Clinton. Trump Jr. has already said he would be willing to testify under oath, after he released emails in which he appeared to welcome information that would incriminate Clinton as "part of Russia and its government's support for Mr. Trump."  But it is unclear if Trump Jr. and Manafort in particular will appear next week, as they are just invited, not confirmed.  "We're having a hearing next Wednesday, so obviously we want to hear right away so we can get the subpoena, I hope they accept the subpoena voluntarily," Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said Wednesday night. "If they don't you have to a marshal give it to them and it takes little more time." CBS News has confirmed that Ike Kaveladze, a Soviet-born businessman who came to the U.S. in 1991, was the eighth person who attended Donald Trum... The Senate Judiciary Committee hearing is titled, "Oversight of the Foreign Agents Registration Act and Attempts to Influence U.S. Elections: Lessons Learned from Current and Prior Administrations." The Senate Judiciary Committee isn't among the committees officially investigating Russian election meddling and any ties to Trump associates, but Grassley is probing some related matters.  Among other questions, Grassley has asked why the Russian lawyer who met with Trump Jr., Natalia Veselnitskaya, was allowed to be in the U.S. CBS News' Alan He contributed to this report. 