Last Updated Jul 23, 2017 9:51 PM EDT President Trump tweeted Sunday a complaint that Republicans aren't doing enough to protect him. "It's very sad that Republicans, even some that were carried over the line on my back, do very little to protect their President," he tweeted. It's very sad that Republicans, even some that were carried over the line on my back, do very little to protect their President. It's not clear what he's referring to, although a tweet just before decried the "phony Russian Witch Hunt." Democrats and Russians, he said, are "laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold." As the phony Russian Witch Hunt continues, two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold, Democrats and Russians! Earlier, the Russia investigation was a topic that came up on the network Sunday shows. On CBS News' "Face the Nation," Sen. Susan Collins of Maine expressed empathy for Mr. Trump, but she did not defend him or his administration. Rather, she urged him to stand back and let the special counsel complete his investigation. Senator Susan Collins, R-Maine, discusses the latest on the Russia investigations and the path forward for replacing Obamacare with Face the Nati... "I understand how difficult and frustrating this investigation is for the president. But he should not say anything further about the special counsel, his staff or the investigation," Collins said Sunday on CBS News' "Face the Nation." "I know it's hard, but he needs to step back and not comment, and let Bob Mueller who is an individual with the utmost integrity, carry out the investigation and make his determination," she added. Late Sunday night, Mr. Trump also fired off a couple more tweets to his followers -- three in the span of 30 minutes. One of them mentioned the push for the health care bill, saying "If Republicans don't Repeal and Replace the disastrous ObamaCare, the repercussions will be far greater than any of them understand!" If Republicans don't Repeal and Replace the disastrous ObamaCare, the repercussions will be far greater than any of them understand! Also Sunday evening he mentioned the "Failing New York Times" and "the Amazon Washington Post" saying "every story/opinion, even if should be positive, is bad!" It's hard to read the Failing New York Times or the Amazon Washington Post because every story/opinion, even if should be positive, is bad! Meanwhile, a day after accepting a top White House job, President Trump's new communications director announced Saturday that he's deleting old tweets that were critical of his new boss, saying his own views have evolved and that what he said in the past shouldn't be a distraction. Full transparency: I'm deleting old tweets. Past views evolved & shouldn't be a distraction. I serve @POTUS agenda & that's all that matters "Full transparency: I'm deleting old tweets. Past views evolved & shouldn't be a distraction. I serve @POTUS agenda & that's all that matters," Anthony Scaramucci, the latest White House hire, tweeted on Saturday. He followed up that notice to followers by saying, "The politics of 'gotcha' are over. I have a thick skin and we're moving on to @POTUS agenda serving the American people." Mr. Trump announced Friday that he'd hired Wall Street financier Scaramucci to help the White House sharpen its public message.