Last Updated Jul 6, 2017 8:18 AM EDT President Trump called for unity in defending and preserving Western civilization while pressing Russia to halt their support of "hostile regimes" as he addressed the people of Poland on Thursday. Speaking in Krasinski Square, near the site of the 1944 Warsaw uprising against the Nazis, Mr. Trump spent much of his speech devoted to applauding the spirit and strength of the Polish people, using their repeated takeovers and occupations as a metaphor for standing up in the face of global threats. "The triumph of the Polish spirit over centuries of hardship gives us all hope in which good conquers evil and peace achieves victory over war," Mr. Trump said. Urging the crowd to all "fight like the Poles", Mr. Trump said, "Our freedom, our civilization and our survival depend on these bonds of history culture and memory and more than ever. Poland is in our heart and its people are in that fight." He added, "I declare today for the world to hear the West will never, ever be broken, our values will prevail, our people will thrive and our civilization will triumph." It was also Mr. Trump's most forceful language to date toward the Russian government, calling on Russia to cease its destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere. He also called on them to drop support for "hostile regimes" in Syria and Iran. After delivering that broadside before a friendly Polish crowd, Mr. Trump then extended an invite to Russia to join the community of responsible nations to defend against terrorism. CBS News' Margaret Brennan reports the language will resonate with Russian President Vladimir Putin who has been long been selling the idea of partnership with the U.S. to fight extremism in places like Syria. Mr. Trump never mentioned Putin by name but he is laying the groundwork for tomorrow's meeting. Mr. Trump also doubled down on his calls for NATO members to pay their fair share in defense spending, a campaign promise he reiterated during his first meeting of NATO states in Brussels two months ago.   "My administration has demanded all members of NATO finally meet their full and fair financial obligation. As a result of this insistence, billions of dollars more have begun to pour into NATO, people are shocked." "Words are easy but actions are what matters," added Mr. Trump. "For its protection, everyone knows this, Europe must do more." Mr. Trump arrived in Warsaw Wednesday evening after tweeting about global trade deals shortly before he departed Washington. During his brief visit, he participated in a joint press conference with Polish President Andrzej Duda, in which he said that he's considering some "pretty severe" options in response to North Korea's intercontinental ballistic missile test this week. Mr. Trump will travel to Hamburg, Germany to take part in the G-20 summit of world leaders, and to have his first highly-anticipated meeting with Putin. The two leaders have spoken on the phone but have not yet formally met in person. They'll meet Friday on the sidelines of the summit. Protests to greet Trump, fellow leaders at G-20 He'll also be meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping during the summit, days after North Korea successfully tested an intercontinental ballistic missile. Mr. Trump had been counting on China to help contain the North's nuclear ambition but has been disappointed. He tweeted this week, "So much for China working with us - but we had to give it a try!" Leaders will also tackle trade and climate change during the summit. See live updates of the speech below: Mr. Trump doubled-down on his call for NATO members to pay their fair share in defense spending, a campaign promise he reiterated during his first meeting of NATO states in Brussels two months ago.   "My administration has demanded all members of NATO finally meet their full and fair financial obligation. As a result of this insistence, billions of dollars more have begun to pour into NATO, people are shocked."  Mr. Trump urged NATO members to "stand firmly behind Article 5, the mutual defense commitment." "Words are easy but actions are what matters," added Mr. Trump. "For its protection, everyone knows this, Europe must do more." In expanding the Western civilization's defense, it is a commitment of will, not just money, Mr. Trump said. "Do we have desire to preserve civilization in face of those who would subvert and destroy it?"  He closed his speech in saying, "We can have the largest economies and the most lethal weapons but if we don't have strong families and strong values then we will be weak and we will not survive." Urging the crowd to all "fight like the Poles", Mr. Trump said, "Our freedom, our civilization and our survival depend on these bonds of history culture and memory and more than ever, Poland is in our heart and its people are in that fight." He added, "I declare today for the world to hear the west will never, ever be broken, our values will prevail our people will thrive and our civilization will triumph." Mr. Trump said the best became great "not because of paperwork and regulations" but because they allowed people to chase their dreams and pursue their destinies.  "Americans, Poles, and the nations of Europe value individual freedom and sovereignty. We must work together to counter forces, whether they come from inside or out, from the South or the East, that threaten over time to undermine these values and to erase the bonds of culture, faith and tradition that make us who we are," he said. He added as allies, "We put faith and family in front of government and bureaucracy." Mr. Trump called the transatlantic bond between U.S. and Europe stronger than ever, but said there are "dire threats" to our way of life.  "America and Europe have suffered one terror attack after another, were going to get it to stop," Mr. Trump said.  Lauding the work done during his overseas trip to Saudi Arabia, Mr. Trump added, "We must stand united against these shared enemies to strip them of their territory, their funding, their networks, and any form of ideological support.  While we will always welcome new citizens who share our values and love our people, our borders will always be closed to terrorism and extremism of any kind." In a rare move, Mr. Trump also urged Russia to cease its "destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere in its support in hostile regimes including Syria and Iran" and instead "join the community of responsible nations in our fight against common enemies and in defense of civilization itself." Mr. Trump reflected on past invasions of Poland, calling the Nazi occupation "brutal" and "hell on earth." Mr. Trump took a moment to acknowledge and applaud veterans of the Warsaw Uprising. "What great spirit," said Mr. Trump of the living heroes. "There is a courage and a strength deep in the Polish character that no one could destroy," Mr. Trump said. Mr. Trump embraced the spirit of Polish strength, saying as those sought to "demolish freedom your faith, your laws, your identity, indeed the very essence of your culture and humanity yet through it all you never lost that spirit." "Your oppressors tried to break you but Poland could not  be broken," he added. "In dark days you may have lost your land, but you never lost your pride." Mr. Trump said. "Poland lives, prospers and prevails in the face of hardships."  He added, "the triumph of the Polish spirit over centuries of hardship gives us all hope in which good conquers evil and peace achieves victory over war." Mr. Trump called Poland a symbol of hope since the beginning of the United States, adding that the two nations hold a special bond only shared between those who have fought, bled and died for freedom. Mr. Trump thanked Polish-Americans for support in the 2016 election. Reflecting on the backdrop of the Warsaw uprising memorial, Mr. Trump embraced a Poland that is "safe strong and free." "America is eager to expand our partnership with you, we welcome stronger ties of trade and commerce," said Mr. Trump. He added the U.S. is committed to securing access to alternate forms of energy so that way the Polish people are never "hostage" to a single supplier of energy.  Mrs. Trump greeted the crowd, thanking them for welcoming them to their country. Mrs. Trump reflected on visiting a science center with local children, saying it's mission was to inspire people to observe, experiment ask questions and seek answers.  Mrs. Trump said Mr. Trump's focus remains on the "safety and security of the American people."  "People should be able to lead their lives without fear no matter what country they live in. that is my wish for all of us around the world," added Mrs. Trump. Mr. Trump lays a ceremonial wreath at the site of 1944 Warsaw uprising against the Nazis. Polish residents chanted as President Trump took the stage to deliver remarks that are billed to be in defense of Western civilization and unity among Europe and the United States in the face of current events.  White House officials said the speech will portray Poland as a "symbol and metaphor for the sacrifices to preserve a civilization."  