Last Updated Jun 14, 2017 10:27 PM EDT WASHINGTON -- President Trump visited House Majority Whip Steve Scalise Wednesday night at MedStar Washington Hospital Center, where the Republican congressman is being treated for gunshot wounds after the morning shooting at a Republican congressional baseball practice in nearby Alexandria, Virginia. Mr. Trump's motorcade made an unannounced trip to the hospital, according to the White House press pool, after a rare emotional and unifying day in Washington, D.C., as members of both parties came together over the jarring incident. The pool reporter was told first lady Melania Trump accompanied the president to the hospital. Trump aides brought two large bouquets of large white flowers. Mr. Trump visited Scalise's room and spoke with the family, according to the pool report. After visiting Scalise, Mr. Trump tweeted the congressman is in "really tough shape," but is a "real fighter." Just left hospital. Rep. Steve Scalise, one of the truly great people, is in very tough shape - but he is a real fighter. Pray for Steve! Scalise is in critical condition, after undergoing surgery for a gunshot to the hip. According to MedStar Washington Hospital Center, Scalise suffered a single rifle wound to his left hip. The gunshot traveled across his pelvis, fracturing bones, injuring internal organs and causing severe bleeding, the hospital said. He will need additional surgeries, the hospital said. The most riveting accounts of the shooting in Alexandria, Virginia, came from the members of Congress who witnessed it. A senior administration official met with several of the doctors treating both Scalise and Officer Crystal Griner. The official, who was not in the room, described the mood as "somber." The Trumps also met with Griner and her wife, the official said. The suspect, James Hodgkinson, was shot and killed. Two Capitol Police officers, a GOP staffer and a lobbyist who once worked as a GOP staffer were all injured. In the midst of a particularly partisan atmosphere in Washington in recent months, Mr. Trump offered a message of unity Wednesday morning. "Everyone who serves in our nation's capital is here because, above all, they love our country," Mr. Trump said in his remarks. "  We can all agree that we are blessed to be Americans, that our children deserve to grow up in a nation of safety and peace, and that we are strongest when we are unified." The annual Congressional Baseball Game for Charity members were preparing for will continue Thursday, as scheduled.