Last Updated Jun 14, 2017 12:29 PM EDT In remarks at the White House, President Trump announced that the assailant who carried out a shooting Wednesday morning -- targeting Congressman Steve Scalise and several others at a baseball field in Alexandria --  has now died from his injuries. The president praised Scalise, a Republican from Louisiana, as "a patriot" and said that that he is now in stable condition. The president also expressed his thanks to the first responders, the Capitol Police, noting that "many lives would have been lost if not for the heroic actions" of the security detail of Scalise. Two Capitol Police officers were among the five wounded. Mr. Trump said he has spoken with Scalise's wife and "pledged our full and absolute support." And he talked with the chief of the Capitol Police "to express my admiration for their courage." Top House Republican and at least four other people were shot by rifle-wielding gunman at congressional baseball practice The president said in his brief remarks, in the Diplomatic Room of the White House that "We may have our differences, but we do well to remember that everyone who serves in our nation's capital is here because they love our country." He went on to say "we are strongest when we are unified and work together for the common good." Top aide Stephen Miller likely helped put Mr. Trump's speech together, CBS News' Major Garrett said, along with senior adviser Kellyanne Conway and chief of staff Reince Priebus. House Majority Whip Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana is recovering from surgery after being shot in the hip by a rifle-wielding gunman Wednesday morning at a congressional baseball practice just outside of Washington, in Alexandria, Virginia. A congressional staffer, a former staffer now working as a lobbyist, and two Capitol Police officers were also wounded. The gunman, identified by law enforcement as James T. Hodgkinson, 66, of Belleville, Illinois, used an M-4 assault rifle to carry out the attack. Lawmakers who were at the baseball practice credited the security detail for Scalise with preventing further casualties. Those officers returned fire and hit the shooter, who was taken into custody. James T. Hodgkinson, 66, of Belleville, Illinois.