Last Updated Jun 14, 2017 3:14 PM EDT Following reports of a shooting at an Alexandria, Virginia YMCA baseball field being used for practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for Charity. The shooting took place in the dugout at a field used for baseball practice shortly after 7 a.m. Wednesday morning.  The injured include House Majority Whip Rep. Steve Scalise, R-Louisiana, at least two Capitol Hill police officers, the gunman, and at least one congressional staffer. His wounds were not believed to be life-threatening. A suspect is also reportedly in custody.  A source said Democratic lawmakers were practicing at their own field miles away when they heard about the shooting. They immediately stopped and prayed together. The annual charity game is scheduled for Thursday, and Republican members were set to play against their Democratic colleagues at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C. Reaction from both sides of the political aisle have been pouring in after the shooting. Here is some of the reaction. "The Vice President and I are aware of the shooting incident in Virginia and are monitoring developments closely. We are deeply saddened by this tragedy. Our thoughts and prayers are with the members of Congress, their staffs, Capitol Police, first responders, and all others affected." The president also tweeted about Scalise. Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, a true friend and patriot, was badly injured but will fully recover. Our thoughts and prayers are with him. Thank you to the first responders who rushed in to help protect those who were hurt in Alexandria, VA. My thoughts & prayers to everyone! Speaking at a workforce development roundtable event at the White House, the senior adviser and eldest Trump daughter said she was "offering our thoughts and prayers to Congressman Scalise and all of the victims in today's tragic events." She added, "We are grateful for their service and their dedication to this country. And thank you everyone for traveling here to be with us today. My father said this morning it is times like these we must all work together for our country, and we appreciate you doing just that." Williams , who was at the scene of the shooting, has been the head coach for the Republican team since he first joined Congress in 2013. A Williams staffer was reportedly shot during the incident.  Please keep the member of my staff and all members of the congressional baseball team in your thoughts and prayers pic.twitter.com/wH4b6wXQhs In a statement following the shooting, McAullife thanked the US Capitol Police and local first responders for their swift action in stopping the gunman and treating the Congressmen.  Below is the Governor's statement on this morning's shooting in Alexandria: pic.twitter.com/GqRB6Pxl6f "The world changed a little bit for us as members" Duncan told reporters, recalling his interaction with a person who had reportedly asked Duncan, who was leaving practice at the time, if there were Republicans or Democrats practicing on the field Wednesday morning.  MORE:  I did have an interaction with someone...who asked me if the team practicing was Democrat or Republican team,  Sen. Duncan says pic.twitter.com/7i4cM14XKk Speaking on the Senate floor, McConnell said the Senate will embrace the spirit of the bipartisan congressional baseball game "as we come together in expressing both our concern and our gratitude." We're concerned for all those injured in #Alexandria. We'll keep them in our prayers & continue to send them every wish for quick a recovery pic.twitter.com/9lWTIedFvR Paul was present during the shooting, saying he is now "shaken but unharmed."  He added, "Many people likely would have died this morning if not for the bravery of the Capitol Police. My thanks to them are inadequate but heartfelt. They never hesitated to put their lives on the line to save everyone. Please pray for those who were injured." Our prayers go out for a full recovery of Rep. Scalise, the congressional aides and police who were injured. We ve got to stop the violence. We are all pulling for you @SteveScalise. My heart is with you, the Capitol Police, and everyone who was on the scene. This is a tragic moment for their families, loved ones, and the entire community on Capitol Hill. "I was on the field, but I'm okay. This was a senseless act of evil. Please pray for those who were shot and their families." Rooney, a member who had just left to drop off his children at school , offered words of support to Scalise on CBS News Wednesday morning, saying, "I love you man. I'm sorry I wasn't there with you."  Florida Congressman Tom Rooney had left the Alexandria baseball field just minutes before a shooter opened fire. House Majority Whip Steve Scalis... This morning the hearts of the whole House are with @SteveScalise, the brave Capitol police, staff, and all those who were in harm's way. Karen & I are praying for @SteveScalise, the Capitol Police, & all hurt for a speedy recovery. Our hearts are with them & their loved ones. Unspeakable evil. Pray that Rep Scalise, police officers and everyone else will be ok. Saddened by news of the shooting in VA this am. Thoughts & prayers for Rep @SteveScalise & others injured & hope for a speedy recovery. I am monitoring reports of the situation in Virginia. Thinking of my friend, @SteveScalise, and his staff. "This morning, the U.S. Congress suffered a despicable and cowardly attack.  My thoughts and prayers are with Whip Steve Scalise and the others wounded, Capitol Police and staff, and their families. We are profoundly grateful for the heroism of the Capitol Police, whose bravery under fire undoubtedly saved countless lives.  On days like today, there are no Democrats or Republicans, only Americans united in our hopes and prayers for the wounded." At the top of his opening remarks at a budget hearing before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Tillerson said, "We were all stunned news of the events that effected one of your colleagues. Scalise is a friend of mine and represents many of my friends in Louisiana. My prayers and those at state are with the injured and law enforcement that responded to the attack." pic.twitter.com/Dy7JkOCvzf My prayers to @SteveScalise, staff, and @CapitolPolice.   We are aware of the situation in Alexandria, VA. Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected and the first responders. Giffords, who, while she was in Congress, was wounded in a mass shooting in 2011 that ended with the deaths of six people. Twelve others were injured. She was the last active member of Congress to be shot before Scalise.  My heart is with my former colleagues, their families & staff, and the US Capitol Police- public servants and heroes today and every day. Jill and I are praying for the victims and their families. Grateful for courage of my former colleagues, first responders & Capitol Police. Horrific. Thoughts & prayers with Rep. @SteveScalise, Capitol police, and staff. I am safe. Please pray for @SteveScalise, my colleagues, their staff, and @CapitolPolice involved in this horrific shooting. This is unspeakable. I am praying for my friend and colleague @SteveScalise and his family. Thinking of my friend @SteveScalise this morning. Praying for him, Capitol Police and the others injured as this horrific news comes in. We are all Americans first, regardless of party. We are all on the same team. And we re praying for those injured in this heinous attack. CBS News' Len Tepper contributed to this report.