Last Updated Jun 21, 2017 6:46 PM EDT WASHINGTON  President Trump has chosen his Washington hotel as the site for a fundraiser that could be used to benefit him and other Republicans.  Campaign director Michael Glassner confirmed the location to The Associated Press on Wednesday. He calls it a premier and convenient choice. The Tuesday fundraiser in Washington will be for larger donors. Mr. Trump officially kicked off his re-election campaign on Inauguration Day by filing Federal Election Commission paperwork, making it the earliest such effort by a sitting president. But Mr. Trump has not officially announced his candidacy, and in a letter accompanying his filing, he wrote it did "not constitute a formal announcement of my candidacy for the 2020 election." Through the end of March, Mr. Trump's campaign had raised more than $7 million through small donor appeals and the sale of merchandise. The Trump campaign and Republican National Committee will share proceeds.  The Trump Organization completed a $200 million renovation of the government property weeks before Election Day. Trump has since distanced himself from the finances of the hotel, but critics say conflicts remain. The venue poses possible ethical and legal questions for Mr. Trump, and is sure to raise questions from Democrats who continue to question the intersection of government and Mr. Trump's business ventures.  Mr. Trump's hotel, located just blocks from the White House also on Pennsylvania Avenue, opened shortly before the 2016 election. Mr. Trump has said he would donate proceeds from foreign officials to charity, but the White House and the Trump Organization have yet to release any details of that plan. The Department of Justice is arguing in court that the president is not violating the Emoluments Clause in the Constitution by accepting foreign payments.  Earlier this year, Ivanka Trump, who works as an assistant to her father and plays a prominent role in the White House, told "CBS This Morning" she manages any "conflict" that arises with the hotel.  In her first interview since becoming assistant to the president, Ivanka Trump tells Gayle King about how she's managing the potential conflict o... Other details of the fundraiser have yet to be released publicly.  In some ways, Mr. Trump hasn't stopped campaigning. On his 100th day in office, he held a campaign-style rally in Pennsylvania. Wednesday night, he will make an appearance in Iowa for a rally. 