Last Updated Jun 22, 2017 5:27 PM EDT Senate Republicans unveiled a "discussion draft" of the bill Thursday of their plan to repeal and replace Obamacare that would end the health care law's penalties for people who don't buy insurance, cut back the expansion of Medicaid, while keeping protections for people with pre-existing conditions, compared to the House-passed bill. Republicans need a simple majority to pass it, rather than a supermajority since they're using the budget reconciliation process. They may still have to rely on Vice President Mike Pence to cast a tie-breaking vote. The Senate currently has 52 Republicans and 48 Democrats. That means if all Democrats vote against the bill, only three no votes from Republicans can torpedo it. Here is what Senate Republicans have said so far about the bill:  Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Missouri: In a statement on June 22, he said, "Members of both parties will have an opportunity to offer amendments as the process moves forward. I will carefully review the final legislation with a focus on how it will help address the problems Missourians are facing under Obamacare. American families need a more reliable and affordable health care system, and this bill takes important steps in that direction." Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana: He told reporters on June 22, "I have yet to read the text so I have to first say that. I do think there's a lot of effort to lower premiums immediately and to provide certainty to insurance companies providing that coverage and so I'm pleased about that...I still have to see what the generosity of the credits are so that as [Medicaid] is scaled back, we don't lose the the ability for lower-income folks to be able to afford insurance and that's why I need to review the text."   Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine: Her communications director said on June 22, "Senator Collins will carefully review the text of the Senate health care bill this week and into the weekend.  She has a number of concerns and will be particularly interested in examining the forthcoming CBO analysis on the impact on insurance coverage, the effect on insurance premiums, and the changes in the Medicaid program. She has met with and heard the concerns of many Mainers about their health care challenges, and she will continue to do so as she studies the impact of this legislation on Maine and the nation." Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas: He issued a joint statement with Sens. Rand Paul, Ron Johnson and Mike Lee on June 22: "Currently, for a variety of reasons, we are not ready to vote for this bill, but we are open to negotiation and obtaining more information before it is brought to the floor. There are provisions in this draft that represent an improvement to our current health care system, but it does not appear this draft as written will accomplish the most important promise that we made to Americans: to repeal Obamacare and lower their health care costs."   Sen. Dean Heller, R-Nevada: In a statement on June 22, he said, "At first glance, I have serious concerns about the bill's impact on the Nevadans who depend on Medicaid. I will read it, share it with Governor Sandoval, and continue to listen to Nevadans to determine the bill's impact on our state...As I have consistently stated, if the bill is good for Nevada, I'll vote for it and if it's not   I won't." Sen. Jerry Moran, R-Kansas: He said in a statement on June 22, "I will fully review this legislation and am awaiting the Congressional Budget Office score to gain a complete understanding of the impacts and consequences this bill would have on hardworking Kansans. If this bill isn't good for Kansas, it isn't good for me." Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona: He said in a statement on June 22, "I am closely reviewing the discussion draft of the Senate health care bill released today. My focus is on protecting the people of Arizona, and I am consulting with Governor Doug Ducey and seeking input from Arizonans before making a final decision. Any replacement plan must ensure our citizens have access to affordable and flexible health care, and I look forward to thoroughly examining this legislation and engaging in a robust amendment process in the Senate next week."   Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky: Speaking on the floor on June 22, he said, "I'm pleased that we were able to arrive at a draft that incorporates input from so many different Members, who represent so many different constituents, who are facing so many different challenges. The draft containing the solutions I mentioned   along with many others   is posted online, and I encourage everyone to carefully review it." Sen. Shelley Moore Capito, R-West Virginia: In a statement on June 22, she said, "Over the course of the next several days, I will review the draft legislation released this morning, using several factors to evaluate whether it provides access to affordable health care for West Virginians, including those on the Medicaid expansion and those struggling with drug addiction." Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kentucky: He told reporters on June 22, "The current bill does not repeal Obamacare. It does not keep our promises to the American people. I will oppose it coming to the floor in its current form, but I remain open to negotiations."  Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio: In a statement on June 22, he said, "There are some promising changes to reduce premiums in the individual insurance market, but I continue to have real concerns about the Medicaid policies in this bill, especially those that impact drug treatment at a time when Ohio is facing an opioid epidemic." Sen. Tim Scott, R-South Carolina: He told reporters on June 22, "I'm open to moving forward on the legislation.; We have a lot of time now -- seven days -- to figure out what parts we like about it, what parts we plan to keep. This is only a draft legislation. We're going to make a lot of changes over the next seven days." Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pennsylvania: He told reporters on June 22 it's a "good step forward."  CBS News' Nancy Cordes, Alan He and John Nolen contributed to this report.