Nearly three-in-five Americans disapprove of the job Donald Trump is doing as president, according to new survey data. Fifty-seven percent of Americans in a Reuters/Ipsos poll published Wednesday said they disapprove of the president's job performance, while only 38 percent said they approve. A Gallup poll released Tuesday reported similar findings: 57 percent of Americans gave Mr. Trump the thumbs-down, while 37 percent gave him the thumbs-up. A new CBS News poll shows President Trump's approval rating is at 36 percent, the lowest point in our polling since he took office. His approval ... The president's numbers were slightly better -- but still underwater -- in an Economist/YouGov survey released Wednesday. In that poll, Mr. Trump's disapproval rating stood at 53 percent, while his approval rating was 41 percent. For comparison's sake, the latest CBS News poll, released last month, found that 57 percent of Americans disapprove of the job Mr. Trump is doing as president, while 36 percent approve. The Economist poll also examined how Americans are responding to the president's prolific (and often controversial) use of social media. Fifty-two percent of Americans polled said the president's tweets since taking office have been "mostly negative," while only 13 percent said they've been "mostly positive." Thirteen percent described them as "mostly neutral," and 22 percent weren't sure. Respondents were particularly critical of the tweets Mr. Trump sent last week insulting the intellect and appearance of MSNBC journalist Mika Brzezinski. Only 18 percent of Americans said that outburst from Mr. Trump was appropriate, while 69 percent said it was inappropriate. The Reuters poll surveyed 1,600 Americans between June 30 and July 4, and it has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percent. The Economist poll surveyed 1,323 Americans between July 3 and July 4, and it has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percent. The Gallup poll surveyed 1,500 Americans between July 1 and July 3 and it has a margin of error of plus or minus three percent. And the CBS News poll surveyed 1,117 Americans between June 15 and June 18 and it has a margin of error of plus or minus four percent.