PISCATAWAY, N.J -- President Trump appeared in good spirits while greeting guests at the U.S. Women's Open golf tournament at his New Jersey golf course. But privately, advisers are concerned about revelations of Kremlin-linked attendees at meeting in Trump Tower last year. The June 2016 gathering was said to be between Donald Trump Jr., campaign manager Paul Manafort, son-in-law Jared Kushner, intermediary Rob Goldstone and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya. But reports now say Rinat Akhmetshin, a Russian-American with suspected links to Russian intelligence, was also there. "As far as you know, as far as this incident is concerned, this is everything?" Fox News' Sean Hannity asked Trump Jr. on Tuesday, after he posted his emails. President Trump at the USGA Women's Open at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminister, N.J., on July 15. 2017. "This is everything," Trump Jr. said. "This is everything." But the later developments contradict his public statements. Trump Jr., based on emails he released, accepted the meeting hoping to receive damaging information about Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump has defended his campaign's actions. "Nothing happened from the meeting," Mr. Trump said in Paris. "Zero happened from the meeting. And honestly I think the press made a very big deal over something that really a lot of people would do." Democrats used their weekly address to say they now have proof of collusion. There are reports that at least eight people were in the room during Donald Trump Jr.'s controversial meeting with a Russian lawyer. CBS News cor... "In Donald Trump Jr.'s emails, we saw the first public evidence that the Trump campaign eagerly intended to collude with Russia," said U.S. Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.). Meanwhile, the administration's newly implemented travel ban is facing another setback. A Hawaii circuit court judge expanded the definition of those permitted entry under a "bona fide" relationship to include grandparents and other relatives. But on Friday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said he will appeal that decision to the Supreme Court.