President Trump is lending his support and his voice to Sen. Luther Strange ahead of Tuesday's Alabama primary election with a new robocall urging voters to turn out for the Republican incumbent. "Hi, this is President Donald Trump, and I love the people of Alabama and I hope you go out and vote for Luther Strange for Senate. It is so important that you do," said Mr. Trump in the call recording, which was also released on Strange's YouTube page.  The president goes on to tout his own administration's achievements in the recording, saying "We've fulfilled so many of our promises everything we've wanted to do we're doing." "Unemployment is at a record low, jobs are flowing back into the country, we have a great Supreme Court Judge in Justice Gorsuch, we are doing things a lot of people said were impossible, but I need Luther to help us out," he adds. Mr. Trump ended the recording by telling supporters that Strange is "helping" him in the Senate and is "going to get the tax cuts for us." This isn't the first time Mr. Trump has lent his support in the form of a phone call -- ahead of Montana's special House election, Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence recorded calls on behalf of then-candidate Greg Gianforte, in which the two urged voters to step out for the Republican to stop "liberal Democrats decimating and dismantling all that we've done."  Mr. Trump previously endorsed Strange in a series of tweets, saying "Senator Luther Strange has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama. He has my complete and total endorsement!" and later tweeting that Strange is strong on border policies, military, tax cuts and law enforcement.  Senator Luther Strange has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama. He has my complete and total endorsement! Luther Strange of the Great State of Alabama has my endorsement. He is strong on Border & Wall, the military, tax cuts & law enforcement. Strange, who was appointed in February to fill the vacancy created by Attorney General Jeff Sessions leaving the seat, is facing off against former Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore and Rep. Mo Brooks in Tuesday's Republican primary. If no candidate gets 50 percent of the vote, the top two finishers will compete in a September run-off election. 