President Trump on Thursday received condemnation from members of both parties for two tweets he posted that attacked a journalist on MSNBC's "Morning Joe." The president singled out host Mika Brzezinksi's IQ and said he barred her from joining him at his Mar-a-Lago resort because "she was bleeding badly from a face-lift."  Republicans and Democrats legislators have labeled Mr. Trump's comments as "uncivil" and "inappropriate" and acknowledged them to be part of a growing history of questionable comments about women. These famous women, both in and out of government, have been attacked by Mr. Trump in unconventional and at-times insensitive ways.  Hillary Clinton At an October rally in Greensboro, North Carolina, Mr. Trump joked about Hillary Clinton's physical appearance during a debate.  "The other day I'm standing at my podium and she walks in front of me, right? She walks in front of me and when she walked in front of me," then Republican candidate Trump said. "Believe me, I wasn't impressed."    When Clinton was diagnosed with pneumonia in September, Mr. Trump teased her about her condition on Twitter, saying "she needs her rest" and "Sleep well Hillary." Hillary Clinton is taking the day off again, she needs the rest. Sleep well Hillary - see you at the debate! Aside from his popularized "crooked Hillary" phrase, Mr. Trump also called Clinton's "strength and stamina" in question throughout the campaign.  Hillary Clinton is weak and ineffective - no strength, no stamina. Ruth Bader Ginsburg  In June 2016, Mr. Trump attacked the 83-year-old Supreme Court associate justice for making political remarks about his campaign.  The president labeled her as an "incompetent" judge who was "mentally shot." He encouraged Ginsburg on Twitter to resign from her seat on the U.S. Supreme Court. Ginsburg later said she regretted getting involved in the presidential campaign by criticizing Mr. Trump.  Justice Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me. Her mind is shot - resign! Justice Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me. Her mind is shot - resign! Rosie O'Donnell  "Only Rosie O'Donnell." Those famous three words from Mr. Trump set off a firestorm of mixed emotions during an August 2015 Fox News Debate. Megyn Kelly read a list of negative names which Mr. Trump had allegedly used against women he didn't agree with, and that was his answer.  Even before running for president, Mr. Trump had a long history of feuding back-and-forth with the television personality. O'Donnell, a fierce advocate for LGTBQ rights, has led marches and organizing efforts against the Trump administration.  Here's a tweet that Mr. Trump directed at O'Donnell a few years before he officially threw his hat into the politic ring.   Rosie is crude, rude, obnoxious and dumb - other than that I like her very much! I feel sorry for Rosie 's new partner in love whose parents are devastated at the thought of their daughter being with @Rosie--a true loser. Megyn Kelly In the early days of the presidential race when most members of the GOP did not support Mr. Trump as the Republican candidate, Mr. Trump bad-mouthed former Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly, who aggressively pressed him on his views of women.  "You could see that blood was coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever," Mr. Trump said to CNN's Don Lemon about Kelly's line of questioning during a Fox News debate.  Mr. Trump did not stop. He used Twitter to continue to profess his anger toward the female anchor, calling her "dumb," "lightweight," "sick" and "crazy" among other things. I refuse to call Megyn Kelly a bimbo, because that would not be politically correct. Instead I will only call her a lightweight reporter! Carly Fiorina  Mr. Trump zeroed in on the physical appearance of American businesswoman Carly Fiorina, who ran for president, and, for a short time, was Texas Sen. Ted Cruz's running mate in the 2016 election.  "Look at that face!" Mr. Trump said, according to The Rolling Stone. "Would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?!" In the tweet below from August 2015, Mr. Trump drew a comparison between Fiorina's voice and developing a "massive headache." I just realized that if you listen to Carly Fiorina for more than ten minutes straight, you develop a massive headache. She has zero chance! Elizabeth Warren The Democratic senator from Massachusetts has been targeted by the president for claiming that she is part Cherokee. Mr. Trump has called Warren "Pocahontas" and "our Native American Senator." He has also accused Warren of "using the woman's card" to push her political agenda in the halls of Washington. Elizabeth Warren, often referred to as Pocahontas, just misrepresented me and spoke glowingly about Crooked Hillary, who she always hated!