Rep. Gary Palmer says "our republic is danger" after witnessing the shooting at a baseball field Wednesday morning in Alexandria, Virginia, as he practiced with teammates for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for charity. Palmer described the day's harrowing events on "CBS This Morning" Thursday, saying the shooting began as members were in the middle of batting practice.  "When I heard the gunshots I knew immediately what it was," said Palmer. It was a moment, Palmer said, he "would have liked to have a firearm" for. "We would have been able to defend ourselves and come to the aid of the (Capitol) Police, who were extraordinary," added Palmer. Amid the exchange of gunfire, the Alabama Republican said he saw House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-Louisiana, go down. "I knew he'd been hit, I knew he'd been hit low," added Palmer. Scalise is still in critical condition after undergoing surgery for a gunshot wound to the hip. According to MedStar Washington Hospital Center, Scalise suffered a single rifle wound from a bullet that traveled across his pelvis, fracturing bones, injuring internal organs and causing severe bleeding, the hospital said. He will need additional surgeries, the hospital said. The gunman, James T. Hodgkinson, a vocal opponent of President Trump and the Republican party, died after a shootout with police. But as the House resumes business as usual, as best it can one day after the shooting, Palmer says the country is "fraying at the edges." "There's extremes at both sides and I've been hearing some of the reports about this gentleman's posts on his Facebook page and it's not that different from what we're hearing from other people," said Palmer. "We got to tone down the rhetoric. It has to begin with us, both parties, its got to come from media and others speaking to the country and particularly on social media." When pressed on just where the country should look for inspiration to turn a new chapter after the negative and at times violent rhetoric that's seeped into politics, Palmer says it starts in Washington. "I think we've got to lead by example. Republicans and Democrats differ on issues that I think we can have a civil discussion." He adds, "I think it begins with me, my colleagues, I think all of us have a stake in this and all we have to take responsibility for what we say and how we say it."