Sen. Lindsey Graham said Thursday he had a walk-and-talk meeting with Jared Kushner, President Trump's senior adviser and son-in-law, to discuss immigration and health care. The South Carolina Republican said the two did not talk about anything related to Russia, even as Kushner is scheduled to testify next week before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Graham is a member of that committee. Kushner -- who was previously at the forefront of major policy issues -- has kept a lower profile recently, as questions about his involvement with Russians swirl.  "I was trying to find a way forward on immigration and trying to find a way forward on healthcare," Graham told reporters. "Jared is a practical guy." Graham did not dive into details about their discussion. Senate Republicans are working to develop a passable health care bill, and Graham is co-sponsoring legislation along with Illinois Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin to grant legal status and a path to citizenship for some immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children. He will need Republicans' support to have any hope of passing the bill, even as Mr. Trump talks tough on immigration.  Earlier Thursday, Graham urged Mr. Trump to support his immigration bill in a press conference.  "So to President Trump, you're going to have to make a decision," Graham said in the press conference. "The campaign is over. To the Republican Party, who are we? What do we believe? The moment of reckoning is coming. When they write the history of these times, I'm going to be with these kids." President Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, is facing backlash for his involvement in a meeting with Donald Trump Jr. and a R... On Wednesday, the president's son-in-law is expected to discuss the June 2016 meeting he, Donald Trump Jr. and former campaign manager Paul Manafort took with Russians during the presidential campaign. Leading up to the meeting, Trump Jr. was told he could be provided with information from the Russian government as a part of its efforts to incriminate Hillary Clinton and support his father.  CBS News' Alan He contributed to this report. 