Tensions between the United States and North Korea escalated dramatically this week as the Trump administration and the North Korean government sent warning signals to each other at a rapid fire pace. On Tuesday, President Trump said North Korea will be met with "fire and fury" if they refused to stop threatening the U.S. Mr. Trump's warning was followed by North Korea threatening to launch missiles towards Guam. Mr. Trump responded to the North Korean threat on Thursday questioning whether his "fire and fury" comment was "tough enough." Friday morning, Mr. Trump issued another warning when he tweeted that the US military is "locked and loaded, should North Korea act unwisely." Meanwhile, the probe into Russia's meddling in the 2016 presidential election progressed this week as news broke that the FBI raided former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort's house late last month as part of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. Sunday on "Face the Nation," we will be joined by CIA Director Mike Pompeo to discuss how the U.S. intelligence community is responding to the tensions with North Korea. What does the CIA make of North Korea's threats? And what does he think of critics who say the intelligence community failed to accurately assess the progress of North Korea's nuclear program? House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) will also join us Sunday. We'll ask him if he thinks the US military is ready to take action and whether the military has the funding it needs to take on a possible conflict with North Korea. We'll hear from former Secretary of Defense and former CIA Director Leon Panetta, who served during the Obama administration, to provide context on the progressing tensions between the US and North Korea. What can he tell us about this latest round of provocation? And are there any good options to defuse the tension? Washington Post columnist David Ignatius and former Deputy CIA Director and CBS News Senior National Security Contributor Michael Morell will join us to provide some expert analysis on the situation with North Korea. How can the Trump administration calm the tensions between the two countries? What can the administration do to remain on a diplomatic path to resolving this issue? And as always, we'll have analysis from our political panel to recap the news this week. This Sunday, we'll be joined by The Atlantic reporter Molly Ball, National Review senior editor Ramesh Ponnuru, deputy managing editor of Time Magazine Michael Duffy and Washington Post reporter and CBS News Contributor Ed O'Keefe. There's a lot to unpack this week, so don't miss it! Check your local listings for airtimes.