The House is reviewing options that would provide for greater security for lawmakers following last week's shooting at the congressional baseball game practice. Leadership laid out various ideas to members of the House Republican Conference Friday morning. Rep. John Carter, R-Texas, a chairman of a House Appropriations subcommittee, said a proposal is being crafted that would contain multiple layers of security. "They said that House Administration is looking at that and making a proposal at three different levels--one at district offices, one for individual members and the possibility of using campaign funds to defend your home," he told reporters after the closed-door meeting. As for using campaign funds, Carter said that the Federal Election Commission (FEC) would first have to "decide whether [using those funds] that would be appropriate" before approving any of the proposals. Under a fiscal 2018 House measure unveiled Thursday, Capitol Police would receive more than $422 million, an increase of more than $29 million above the current funding level. The appropriations panel said it would "fund critical safety and enhanced security functions for all Members, staff, and visitors of the Capitol Complex, and maintain public access to the Capitol and its office buildings." "Increased funding is included to address concerns related to security and protection traumatic shooting earlier this month. This includes $7.5 million to enhance protection for increased training, equipment and technology-related support items," the committee said in a release. A number of lawmakers who were at the scene of last week's shooting have said they'd like to study the extent of security that's needed. If it weren't for the presence of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-Louisiana, at the practice, lawmakers would not have had security to monitor them on the field in Alexandria, Virginia. Many of the players credited Scalise's security detail with saving their lives. Scalise was among five people shot, and his condition has since improved. He was upgraded to fair condition at MedStar Washington Hospital Center on Wednesday. 