  BEIJING, April 19, 2016 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping, also head of the central Internet security and informatization leading group, presides over a symposium on cyberspace security and informatization in Beijing, capital of China, April 19, 2016. (Xinhua/Ma Zhancheng) BEIJING, April 19 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday called for coordinated development of cyberspace security and informatization as well as breakthroughs in core Internet technology. Xi, also head of the central Internet security and informatization leading group, made the remarks while presiding over a symposium on the topic. Security is a prerequisite for Internet development, and development will also safeguard Internet security, Xi said. Stressing a correct outlook on cybersecurity, Xi urged accelerated development of a system to protect key information infrastructure and ensure online security. Internet defense capabilities should be enhanced, Xi said, adding that securing the online environment is a common responsibility for all of society and requires commitment from the government, enterprises, social organizations and all netizens. He also called on the industry to achieve more breakthroughs in core Internet technology. "More personnel, material and financial resources should be put toward research and development of core and strategically important technologies," the president said. He called on entrepreneurs, scholars, scientists and technicians in the industry to work together toward the goal. "New technology is the achievement of civilization and we will never resist its development as long as it helps improve productivity and the people's lives," Xi said. The leading group's deputy heads Li Keqiang and Liu Yunshan also attended the symposium. Related: China's Xi calls for better development of Internet BEIJING, April 19 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for enhanced development of the Internet and harnessing it for the benefit of the country and the people. Xi, who also heads China's central Internet security and informatization leading group, made the remarks in his speech addressed at a symposium on cyber security and informatization on Tuesday.  Full story Filthy, polluted cybersphere not in anyone's interests, Xi says BEIJING, April 19 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday told a symposium on Internet security that better cyberspace management and a positive and healthy cyber culture will be good for everyone. Clean cyberspace with healthy dynamics is in the interests of all, while filthy and unhealthy cybersphere serves no one, said Xi, who heads China's central Internet security and informatization leading group. Full story   1 2 3 >>    1 2 3 >> 