CANBERRA, Aug. 16 (Xinhua) -- Australian security officials said on Tuesday that severe faults in IT giant IBM's software are to blame for last week's online census debacle. The Australian Signals Directorate (ASD), the nation's top cybersecurity agency within the Defence Department, said flaws within IBM's design of the census webpage gave weight to pre-census concerns the servers would not be able to handle the amount of traffic while simultaneously warding off cyber-attacks. Last week, millions of Australians attempted to fill out the nation's first online census - which gives the government an accurate snapshot of the nation. However the website failed a number of times before it was taken offline by the government due to a number of perceived "security threats." Later in the week, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull warned that "heads would roll" over the poor planning, and said that denial of service (DOS) attacks were "very predictable" and should have been easily thwarted on the night. According to a News Corp report on Tuesday, the ASD learned there was no 'back-up' server when the IBM and Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) system came under pressure from a DOS attack, in which a website is bombarded with so much traffic - legitimate or otherwise - that it becomes impossible to access. According to the ASD, a key failure on the part of IBM was the absence of an 'upstream provider' to keep the website running and online when the initial system came under pressure. IBM was reportedly paid up to 7.5 million U.S. dollars to host the census, and has so far refused to apologize for the failure, adding to government frustrations over the evening. The prime minister's chief cyber-security adviser, Alastair MacGibbon, former director of the Australian High Tech Crime Center, has been asked to chair an official inquiry into the census failure. It is expected to consider the ASD advice as well as responses from both the ABS and IBM. As of Tuesday, less than half of all Australian households have filled in the online census - which is back online - however concerns about security are reportedly scaring Australians off from filling in the data. The ABS has confirmed it has implemented "additional protective measures" in the wake of the debacle to protect private information from falling into the wrong hands.