06 Jul 2017 07:13am IST Report by Team Herald MARGAO: Keeping in mind the sensitive nature of the cases and possibility of communal unrest, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and the cyber cell of Goa Police have joined the investigation into the desecration of Crosses and temples. MARGAO: Keeping in mind the sensitive nature of the cases and possibility of communal unrest, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and the cyber cell of Goa Police have joined the investigation into the desecration of Crosses and temples.  Representatives of the two agencies on Wednesday carried out a thorough inspection of all sites and collected vital data on mobile signal dumps, even as the Superintendent of Police Chandan Choudhary confirmed that the investigation of the Cross desecration was still with the South Goa police and the ATS and the cyber cell were merely assisting the police investigate the matter exhaustively. "All the other states in India have a separate cyber cell which probe cases independently. Since Goa is a small state the cyber cell is centralised. We have taken help from the cyber cell and ATS to take dump analysis for deeper investigation" he said. There is no question of handing over the case of desecration to any other agency, he underlined, adding that the South Goa police was probing the matter but since the incidents were potential threat to peace, we have taken help from the cyber cell and ATS. It may be recalled that three Crosses were vandalised at Paroda and Chandor, two in Aquem and Curtorim and a temple in Calconda, Margao since July 1.  The DIG Rupinder Kumar later held a meeting asking the police to gather intelligence and put an end to such incidents. The Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar on Wednesday said that the ATS would assist the investigation. It may be recalled that the Alma Khuris at Chandor which was desecrated on June 18 and recently repaired was destroyed again on July 1 night. In fact this time, the entire cross was knocked off the pedestal and tile of even the pedestal were destroyed. This is the fifth time that the particular Cross has been desecrated by miscreants, who appear intent on spreading malice.  The other Cross that was destroyed was recently-constructed by Tereza family in memory of Jesus Simon Tereza.