Check Point Software Technologies (NASDAQ: CHKP) and Symantec Corporation (NASDAQ:SYMC) are both large-cap computer and technology companies, but which is the superior business? We will contrast the two businesses based on the strength of their valuation, profitabiliy, institutional ownership, earnings, dividends, risk and analyst recommendations. Risk & Volatility Check Point Software Technologies has a beta of 0.73, meaning that its stock price is 27% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Symantec Corporation has a beta of 1.11, meaning that its stock price is 11% more volatile than the S&P 500. Insider and Institutional Ownership 72.4% of Check Point Software Technologies shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 94.1% of Symantec Corporation shares are owned by institutional investors. 29.0% of Check Point Software Technologies shares are owned by company insiders. Comparatively, 0.8% of Symantec Corporation shares are owned by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and large money managers believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term. Analyst Recommendations This is a breakdown of recent recommendations and price targets for Check Point Software Technologies and Symantec Corporation, as provided by MarketBeat. Sell Ratings Hold Ratings Buy Ratings Strong Buy Ratings Rating Score Check Point Software Technologies 0 15 16 0 2.52 Symantec Corporation 1 11 13 0 2.48 Check Point Software Technologies currently has a consensus price target of $107.65, indicating a potential downside of 2.44%. Symantec Corporation has a consensus price target of $30.64, indicating a potential upside of 10.24%. Given Symantec Corporation s higher probable upside, analysts plainly believe Symantec Corporation is more favorable than Check Point Software Technologies. Profitability This table compares Check Point Software Technologies and Symantec Corporation s net margins, return on equity and return on assets. Net Margins Return on Equity Return on Assets Check Point Software Technologies 41.75% 21.53% 14.70% Symantec Corporation -2.64% 11.06% 2.63% Dividends Symantec Corporation pays an annual dividend of $0.30 per share and has a dividend yield of 1.1%. Check Point Software Technologies does not pay a dividend. Symantec Corporation pays out -176.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Valuation & Earnings This table compares Check Point Software Technologies and Symantec Corporation s top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation. Gross Revenue Price/Sales Ratio EBITDA Earnings Per Share Price/Earnings Ratio Check Point Software Technologies $1.77 billion 10.29 $873.71 million $4.33 25.48 Symantec Corporation $4.02 billion 4.20 $727.00 million ($0.17) -163.47 Check Point Software Technologies has higher revenue, but lower earnings than Symantec Corporation. Symantec Corporation is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Check Point Software Technologies, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. Summary Check Point Software Technologies beats Symantec Corporation on 9 of the 15 factors compared between the two stocks. Check Point Software Technologies Company Profile Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (Check point) develops, markets and supports a range of products and services for information technology (IT) security. The Company s products and services are sold to enterprises, service providers, small and medium sized businesses and consumers. It offers enterprises a platform to deploy independent, modular and interoperable security applications (Software Blades), such as firewall, virtual private network (VPN), intrusion prevention system (IPS), Application Control, Anti-Bot, antivirus, data loss prevention (DLP), policy management, event analysis or multi-domain management. The Company offers Software Blades grouped into functional packages to address specific security issues. It has product offerings under these packages, which include Next Generation Firewall, Next Generation Threat Prevention, Next Generation Secure Web Gateway and Next Generation Data Protection. Symantec Corporation Company Profile Symantec Corporation is a United States-based cyber security company. The Company offers products under categories, such as threat protection, information protection, cyber security services and Website security. Under threat protection, it offers Advanced Threat Protection, Endpoint Protection, Endpoint Protection Cloud, IT Management Suite, Email Security.Cloud, Data Center Security and Cloud Workload Protection products. Under the information protection category, it offers Data Loss Prevention, Encryption, Managed PKI, Service, VIP Access Manager, and Data Loss Prevention and CloudSOC products. The Company also offers consulting services, customer success services, cyber security services and education services. Its cyber security services include DeepSight Intelligence software, which provides an analysis of attacks. The Company offers the Blue Coat Security Platform, which provides Web security solutions for global enterprises and governments. Receive News & Ratings for Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.