Chinese President Xi Jinping gives a speech at the 8th China-U.S. Internet Industry Forum held at the Microsoft headquarters in Redmond of Washington State, the United States, Sept. 23, 2015. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen)  SEATTLE, United States, Sept. 23 (Xinhua) -- Visiting Chinese President Xi Jinping said here Wednesday that Beijing advocates the building of a peaceful, secure, open and cooperative cyber space. Speaking at a China-U.S. Internet forum held at the Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, Washington state, Xi noted that with the rapid development of information technology, the Internet plays an increasingly important role in the peace and development of individual countries and the world. Therefore, he pointed out, how to govern and make better use of the cyber space has become a big question all countries care about and are studying. China advocates the building of a peaceful, secure, open and cooperative cyber space and maintains that every country should institute its own Internet policy in line with its own national conditions, Xi said. Noting that both China and the United States are major countries in the Internet sphere, where they have important common interests and room for cooperation, he suggested that the two countries carry out constructive talks on cyber issues on the basis of mutual respect and trust. In so doing, he added, the two sides can create a new bright spot in bilateral cooperation and enable the cyber space to bring more benefits to the two nations and the people across the world. Related: China ready to cooperate with U.S. in fighting cyber crimes: Xi SEATTLE, United States, Sept. 22 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping said Tuesday that China is ready to cooperate with U.S. in fighting cyber crimes. Xi kicked off his first state visit to the United States in the West Coast city of Seattle Tuesday, a landmark trip aimed at building up trust and stepping up cooperation between the world's two biggest economies.Full Story China makes progress fighting domestic, international cyber crime BEIJING, Sept. 18 (Xinhua) -- Chinese police have made notable progress in fighting cyber crimes at home and through international cooperation, according to the Ministry of Public Security on Friday.Full Story Commentary: Cyber security should become highlight of China-U.S. cooperation, not contradiction focus BEIJING, Sept. 15 (Xinhua) -- Against the backdrop of Chinese President Xi Jinping's upcoming visit to the United States, there is little doubt that cyber security would be a hot topic. Actually, in safeguarding cyber security, China and the United States, two pivotal players on the realm, have a lot to cooperate, rather than to make it a contradiction focus.Full Story