Comprehensive National Security Policy highlightsIndia s leading security experts met behind closed doors in Pune to discuss national security concerns. These freewheeling discussions, under Chatham House Rules, led to key recommendations emerging from the Pune Dialogue on National Security (PDNS). Here are some of the main recommendations on key topics. INDIA S CYBER SECURITY Current state: Extremely poor Recommendation: Establish three to four cyber security clusters with close cooperation between the government, industry and academia. ISLAMIC RADICALISATION Current state: Certain Islamist states focus "is nothing less than to impair and damage India by as many and whichever ways feasible". Recommendation: Indian Government in concert with civil society within and outside India needs to work with the US Government to affect effective strategies to control misuse of cyberspace channels by Islamist extremists. NUCLEAR DOCTRINE Current state: Demand is to re-examine the efficacy of two major attributes of India s nuclear doctrine: Credible Minimum Deterrence and No First Use (NFU). Recommendation: India must consider Pakistan s acquisition of eight Jin-class missile submarine from China which will most likely be equipped with nuclear weapons. In the event of a nuclear war between India and Pakistan, what would be the roles of China, Russia and the United States? These need to be analysed. MARITIME SECURITY Current state: India has shown gross neglect of her maritime interests, assets and potential. Recommendation: India needs to urgently conceive a national strategy for maritime security. Promote ship-building and ship-repair in a big way. Develop better technologies and better capabilities for the enhancing Underwater Domain Awareness (UDA). CIVIL-MILITARY RELATIONSHIP Current state: One of the major aspects of civil-military strife in India is "the contempt and ignorance amongst many civilians about the uniform". Recommendation: Implement the key recommendations of the Arun Singh Committee, K. Subramanyam Committee Report and the Naresh Chandra Task Force to improve civil-military relationship. WATER Current state: India has a little less than 4% of the world s area, almost 17% of its population and about 4% of the world s fresh water. The per capita water availability has been reducing since Independence. Recommendation: With regards to the international sharing of water, India can use the Indus waters "as a tool of coercion and intimidation, if needed". India needs to re-look at the water treaties with Nepal and Bangladesh and re-construct water management approaches and move towards a basin management approach.