DES MOINES   Two brothers admitted Thursday to using inside information generated by manipulated computer software to pull off a multi-state lottery swindle that netted millions of dollars in illegal winnings until exposed by suspicious Iowa officials. Eddie Tipton, 54, a former information security director for the Multi-State Lottery Association who was the mastermind behind the lottery-rigging scheme, pleaded guilty to one Class B felony count of ongoing criminal conduct and could face up to 25 years in prison for his role in illegally obtaining $2.2 million in winnings from lotteries in five states. Tipton s brother, Tommy, 53, of Flatonia, Texas, also entered guilty pleas to two criminal counts as part of a multi-state plea agreement and was placed on probation and sentenced to serve 75 days in a Texas jail beginning Saturday by District Judge Bradley McCall. The Tipton brothers were ordered to pay about $3 million in restitution and Tommy Tipton also was told to pay Iowa more than $5,300 in fines. During Thursday s court appearance, Eddie Tipton admitted he tampered with what were supposed to be random number generators to enable his co-conspirators to claim jackpots in Colorado, Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Kansas. The criminal activity unraveled when Iowa lottery officials became suspicious over a mysterious attempt to claim a $14.3 million Hot Lotto prize in 2010 that was never paid out and led authorities to Tipton, a lottery official who was not allowed to play the game. While working for an Urbandale nonprofit association that distributes lottery games nationwide, Tipton said he wrote a software code about 10 years ago that would predict winning numbers. He shared those numbers with others who used them to win jackpots and they shared their winnings with him.  It was more of a trying to see if I could do it scenario and then   it just continued to exist,  Tipton told the judge Thursday.  The opportunity was there and I just took advantage of it later. But when I first wrote it I did not know if I would ever use it.  Eddie Tipton said he was under the belief that the software fell under a  loophole  in the system and  I didn t think anybody was breaking the law at all  when lotteries agreed to use the software he had developed. Tommy Tipton told the judge his brother provided him with lottery numbers to play in Colorado and Oklahoma and he did not ask him  how he got the numbers  that he played four times.  I know without the numbers Eddie gave me, it would be unlikely that I would win the lottery,  said Tommy, who noted he share the winnings with Eddie and others.  I apologize for my actions,  Tommy Tipton told McCall before the judge handed down his sentence.  They were stupid and unwise.  He said he planned to sell some of his farm and land in Texas to cover restitution he pledged to repay in full. Dean Stowers, Eddie Tiption s defense attorney, said he successfully argued before the Iowa Supreme Court that the charges brought against his client for which he previously was convicted were not brought in a timely manner, but he noted Tipton did not have a similar defense in other states which led to him agreeing to accept a plea arrangement.  To give up on that argument is a major concession after litigating it for two and a half years,  Stowers said after Thursday s hearing.  But at the same time, Eddie Tipton wants to resolve the case and he done with it and move on with his life to the extent that he can.  Stowers added that Tipton s brother, Tommy,  was a major factor in his decision making  to reach the plea deal whereby Tommy received a deferred sentence on a felony theft charge and a 75-day jail term on a misdemeanor theft guilty plea. Rob Sand of the Iowa Attorney General s Office said it felt  good  to resolve a prosecution spanning nearly three years that was one of the most complicated cases he has handled. "Small steps down a darkened path can lead somebody a long way from where they think they are going to be to where they end up," he told reporters outside the courtroom. Sand credited the Iowa Lottery s refusal to pay out the jackpot and raise questions that led to an investigation with unraveling the plot.  Were it not for the Iowa Lottery s vigilance in that we may not be here today,  Sand told reporters after Thursday s hearing. Sand, who patted Eddie Tipton on the shoulder after the plea hearing, said he did not hear Tipton s response but said he thought it  was a combination and relief  from a person who has agreed to cooperate with law enforcement and lottery officials in  proffering  information on how to prevent future cyber breeches. He said the state would seek the maximum penalty when Eddie Tipton is sentenced at a future date. After Tipton's 2015 conviction in Iowa, which was overturned this month by the Iowa Supreme Court, investigators linked him, his brother Tommy, and a longtime friend, Robert Rhodes, to suspicious jackpots in Colorado, Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Kansas. Sand said information provided by Rhodes, a Texas businessman who pleaded guilty to a fraud charge in Iowa and a computer crime charge in Wisconsin earlier this year, provided valuable information for prosecutors against both Tipton brothers. Earlier this month, Eddie Tipton pleaded guilty in Wisconsin to theft by fraud and a computer crime charge for defrauding the Wisconsin Lottery in 2007. Tipton and an accomplice collected more than $783,000 for a Wisconsin Megabucks jackpot. After Thursday s guilty pleas were accepted, Iowa Lottery CEO Terry Rich released a statement called the agreement  a crucial step in bringing to a close one of the biggest lottery mysteries in history.  Rich said details learned through the long-running investigation already has helped lottery officials develop security enhancements and procedures.  It was important to us to hear Eddie Tipton acknowledge in court today that he wrote malicious computer code, then used that code to predict winning numbers in lottery drawings and passed those numbers to others, including his younger brother, Tommy, multiple times in years past to fraudulently claim prizes,  Rich added.  This information will be invaluable to the Iowa Lottery and the lottery industry as a whole to help us safeguard our games and protect our players. 