Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of International Air Transport Association (IATA) Tony Tyler (R) and Secretary-General of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Raymond Benjamin attend the Civil Aviation Cyber-Security Conference held in Singapore, July 9, 2015. The two-day Civil Aviation Cyber Security Conference meeting kicked off in Singapore Thursday. (Xinhua/Then Chih Wey) SINGAPORE, July 9 (Xinhua) -- Civil Aviation Cyber Security Conference kicked off in Singapore on Thursday, bringing together the international civil aviation community to discuss key issues relating to cyber security. Featuring a line-up of 24 international and local speakers, the two-day meeting aims to further the collective awareness of civil aviation stakeholders on the growing risk of cyber threats, and the potential impact and consequence of these threats to civil aviation operations. In this age of interconnectedness, such threats can have severe implications on the global civil aviation eco-system, which includes airlines, airport operators, air freight companies, security service providers, aviation security equipment suppliers, aircraft and aero-engine manufacturers, regulators and others. Although cyber risks cannot be eliminated entirely, something must be done, Director-General and CEO of International Air Transport Association (IATA) Tony Tyler said in the keynote speech. He stressed that it will require a deeper collaboration between authorities, industries and the academic world through an effective information sharing program. Besides raising awareness, the conference also provides a platform for civil aviation leaders and stakeholders to exchange views on the challenges, considerations, and possible approaches to dealing with cyber threats. The meeting is jointly organized by Singapore's Ministry of Transport (MOT), Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) and Singapore Aviation Academy, and supported by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and IATA. Civil aviation has been identified as a critical sector in Singapore, and the industry has been included in the Critical Infocomm Infrastructure Protection (CIIP) Program under the National Cyber Security Master Plan 2018. The program aims to systematically strengthen the security and resilience of the info- comm systems of critical infrastructure. CAAS has been working closely with the aviation community and the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore to implement the program. Aviation Cyber Security Community (ACSC) has been established in November last year to facilitate timely sharing of information and pro-active management of cyber risks.   1 2 3 4 >>    1 2 3 4 >> 