Employees read a ransomware demand for the payment of $300 worth of bitcoin on company computers infected by the Petya software virus inside a retail store in Kiev, Ukraine, on June 28. (Vincent Mundy/Bloomberg News) By Ellen Nakashima By Ellen Nakashima June 29 at 7:02 PM Follow @nakashimae The cyber attack that crippled computer systems in Ukraine and other countries this week employed a ruse   the appearance of being ransomware   that seems designed to deflect attention from the attacker s true identity, security researchers said. And many companies initially fell for it. The first reports out of cybersecurity firms on Monday, when news of the attack hit, was that a new variant of WannaCry, a virus that encrypted data and demanded a ransom to restore it, was on the loose. In fact, a number of researchers said this week, the malware   which researchers are calling NotPetya   does not encrypt data, but wipes its victims  computers. If the data is not backed up, it s lost, they said.  It definitely wasn t ransomware and wasn t financially motivated,  said Jake Williams, founder of Rendition Infosec, a cybersecurity firm, which has analyzed the virus.  The goal was to cause disruption in computer networks.  Moreover, the email address to make a payment to retrieve data is no longer accessible, said Matt Suiche, a hacker and founder of Comae Technologies, a cybersecurity firm. He said in a blog post this week that the ransomware feint was probably a way to make people think  some mysterious hacker group  was behind the attack rather than a nation state.  The fact of pretending to be a ransomware while being in fact a nation-state attack . . . is in our opinion a very subtle way for the attacker to control the narrative of the attack,  Suiche said. Security researchers cautioned that it is too early to know for sure who is behind it. But some say that the targeting and distribution method of the malware point to Russia. More than half the victimized computers were in Ukraine, including banks, energy firms and an airport. Russia, which has annexed Crimea and has backed separatists in eastern Ukraine, has carried out an aggressive campaign of cyberattacks and harassment there. In December, Russian government hackers disrupted the power grid in Kiev. A year earlier, they knocked out power in western Ukraine. In this case, to get into victims  computers, attackers infected a financial software program in Ukraine, called MEDoc, that delivers software updates to businesses through the Internet. That s called a  watering hole  attack, which targets users who navigate to the site for updates or to browse. It is also a tactic that Russian government hackers have used in the past to compromise industrial control system networks, Williams noted. MEDoc is one of only two software options Ukrainian businesses have to pay their taxes, noted Lesley Carhart, an information security expert.  This was a clever choice  for several reasons, she noted in a blog post, including that the  distribution base  within the country was  extremely comprehensive  as many companies used the software. NotPetya did not spread across the open Internet, she said in an email.  Its tactic was to compromise a few computers inside a network  once the hacker got in, say, by delivering the malware through MEDoc. Then it could rapidly spread to other computers in the same network using a variety of other methods.  While most  patient zero  computers were in Ukraine . . . the corporate networks those computers [connect to] could potentially span the globe, and infection could also spread to any customers, partners, or vendors with whom they had unrestricted network connections and shared accounts,  she said. That might explain how U.S. pharmaceutical giant Merck, the Danish shipping firm Maerskeven and the Russian oil company Rosneft became infected. The Rosneft infection might be an unintended consequence   collateral damage, Williams said. Valentyn Petrov, head of the information security service at Ukraine s National Security and Defense Council, said that the attack s timing, on the eve of Ukraine s Constitution Day, indicated this was a political attack.  We are in an interesting test phase in which Russia is using modern cyberweapons,  Petrov said,  and everyone is interested to see how it is working   and how threats can be countered.  David Filipov in Moscow contributed to this report. world national-security Get 2016 Olympics updates by email Our best news and analysis from Rio, delivered to your inbox. post_newsletter333 magnet-olympics2016 false after3th false You re all set! See all newsletters world national-security Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas true endOfArticle false You re all set! See all newsletters 0 Comments  Share on FacebookShare   Share on TwitterTweet Share via Email Ellen Nakashima is a national security reporter for The Washington Post. She focuses on issues relating to intelligence, technology and civil liberties. Follow @nakashimae Share news tips with us confidentially Do you have information the public should know? Here are some ways you can securely send information and documents to Post journalists. Learn more 0 Show Comments Discussion Policy Comments SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badges Get a badge To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. Spam Offensive Disagree Off-Topic Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. Facebook Twitter Reddit StumbleUpon Digg