Event In order to promote the integrated development of manufacturing and Internet and ensure the securityof the industrial control system  ICS  China s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of thePeople s Republic of China MIIT  formulated a guidance for industrial control system security, settingrules for safe software selection and management, bound security, identification and so forth. Comment More policy support will be granted to facilitate the upgrade industrial safety protectionAfter the Stuxnet attack in 2010, MIIT issued the Document [2011] No.451-  Notice on StrengtheningIndustrial Control System Information Security Management  meanwhile, the Chinese regulator issuedthe Document *2012+ No.23  Guidelines on promoting information-based development and ensuringinformation security  In 2015, MIIT completed formulating standard for industrial control systemsecurity, which came into effect on Feb.1 2015. The new guidance for safeguarding industrial controlling system information security and the specificrules and standards in eleven aspects issued and formulated by MIIT will encourage the business tofollow the guidance in batches. The guidance extended and specified the programmatic document issuedpreviously, which is highly practical. Under the guidance, system application executors will devote moreresources in product R&D to promote industrial control system security. The extensive use of more intelligent industrial control system network made it more challenging toensure information security. Industrial controlling systems, such as data collection and monitoring, distributable control system,process control system and PLCs, have been widely used in areas including industry, energy,transportation, water conservancy and civil engineering. Once vulnerabilities, once occur, may causegreat damage to industry production and operation as well as national economic security. For example,the Stuxnet attacked Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant of Iran in 2010, leading to 20% centrifuges breakdownand around 30,000 terminals infection. Moreover, most attack means are extremely covert and the virushave been latent for a long time before being found out, which have incurred huge loss to the business orthe country. According to statistics from cyber security business unit of Kingsoft Corporation Limited, ittakes two months for a normal defensive system to identify the attack to industrial control system, yet itmay take half a year to detect more hidden virus like Stunet and Duqu. National enterprises has started replacing current systems and adding new ones, which will open upnew market opportunities. The construction and security defensing of industrial control systems in China were largely provided byforeign suppliers, such as Siemens, Rockwell, Alstom and ABB. The overall industrial control systemsecurity faces great challenge. We believe, with continuous upgrading of information security, in theindustrial control system security, the main sub-area of information security area, we will replace thestock with home-made systems in core areas and purchase domestic products in new areas. At present,some domestic enterprises have made progress. For example, Venus Tech and LeadSec have jointlyissued a domestic industrial control system information security product mix in April 2015, marking theofficial penetration into industrial control system security areas. Investment Recommendations: with the intensive policy support, industrial control system informationsecurity industry will become more attractive. The industry as a whole is awaiting the domestic productsreplacement and upgrading in products, technology and service in new areas. All these mean greatermarket opportunities. Our investment top picks include: Venustech Group  002439.SZ  NsfocusInformation Technology 300369.SZ  and Guangdong Nanyang Cable Group  002212.SZ  Potential Risks: Policy implementation may fail expectations; new products and technology R&D may fallshort of estimates. 