Foreign media recently reported that former U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) contractor Edward Snowden once again disclosed a top-clearance NSA  secret  action, including its espionage and cyber attacks against China. This reveals to the international community the true color of the US, which has regarded itself as the world cop in the cycler space. The confidential documents exposed by Snowden showed that the NSA tapped other countries  secrete not only through remote network-based monitoring but also  human intelligence  in the form of  targeted attack . It makes China, South Korea and Germany the key targets of  targeted attack , and has assigned spies to China and several other countries to sabotage and hack network equipment through  physical damage , and even set up  targeted attack outpost  in Beijing. The personnel carrying out such attacks are settled in U.S. embassies in other countries or other locations. The outpost is the frontline workstation set by the NSA overseas. The latest exposure by Snowden proved again that the U.S. is the top cyber thief and attacker in the world. For many years, leveraged on its core technologies and global Internet infrastructure, the US has kept on its large-scale, organized and premeditated cyber theft and surveillance activities on foreign governments, enterprises and individuals. From email, phone record, directory and social network information to cell phone positioning, the U.S. leaves no dead corner in its  theft  and  surveillance . Yet instead of reflecting on its own actions or giving the international community an  explanation , this U.S. has acted like a victim of cyber attack, accused China of launching hacker attacks and  sued  Chinese servicemen, exposing its domineering style and hypocrisy on the cyber security issue. After Snowden disclosed the  Prism , the U.S. was forced to keep its head down for nearly a year under the pressure of international consensus. However, the U.S. Department of Justice suddenly announced to press charges against five Chinese servicemen in May this year for the so-called suspicion of  hacking the computers of U.S. enterprises and stealing business secrets.  The U.S. Senate released another report in September, claiming that cyber hackers associated with the Chinese military tried at least 20 times to enter the information system of multiple U.S. enterprises in 2012-2013. The U.S  rumor-mongering and slandering for ulterior motives is mainly to change its role from a cyber  attacker  to a  victim  in front of the world and resume its moral high ground in the cyber space that it lost after the  Prism  incident. As a matter of fact, China has been a long-standing victim of cyber attacks. Data show that most of the attacks suffered in recent years by Chinese military devices connected with the Internet come from the U.S. No matter how the U.S. tries to call black white and smear China, it cannot whitewash its image as the top cyber thief and attacker. 2,077 Trojan or Botnet control servers located in the U.S. directly controlled about 1.18 million host computers in China from March 19 to May 18 this year, during which period 2,016 U.S-based IPs planted backdoor at 1,754 websites in China, involving about 57,000 backdoor attacks. China has lodged severe complaints to the U.S., demanding it to stop such wrongdoing, but the U.S. has never restrained itself in the least. The U.S. should reflect on its cyber theft and attack against other countries, give clear explanations to China and the international community, and make more efforts to improve the peace and stability in the cyber space instead of doing exactly the opposite. (By Zhang Junshe, a military expert)