Full coverage: China s Leaders Full coverage: China s Leaders China is paying growing attention to cyber security and informatization. Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for full awareness of the importance and urgency of cyber security and informatization, as it concerns the livelihood of the general public. Efforts should be made to build China into a cyber power. That is what President Xi Jinping said during a meeting with other members of China's central leading group on Internet security and informatization. The president is to take command of the group, which is designed to lead and coordinate Internet security and informatization work among different sectors, as well as draft national strategies, development plans and major policies in this field. Xi stressed that Internet security and informatization is a major strategic issue concerning a country s security and development, as well as people s life and work. President Xi noted China has the world s largest number of Internet users, but it still lags behind in development of Internet technologies. Data shows by the end of 2013, China had about 618 million Internet users, but only 28.6 percent of them were from the countryside. The digital gap between rural and urban areas remains large, and the average bandwidth enjoyed by each Chinese is far less than that in developed countries. Xi also said that cyber security is as important as national security. He said building a cyber power calls for independent innovation in core technology, sound infrastructure, and a world-class team of talents. The president stressed the need for a comprehensive plan to develop information technology and cyber security technology, to support companies working in this field. And there must be laws and regulations on managing information online, protection of key infrastructure facilities, and cleaning up cyberspace. President Xi said information resources are increasingly becoming a crucial production factor and a key part of social wealth, and can signal a country s soft and competitive power. Related stories Chinese mobile brands adapt to global stage 2014-02-28 Xi heads Internet security group 2014-02-28 President Xi: Efforts needed to make China a cyber power 2014-02-28