Home Neuroscience June 29, 2017 Who is responsible if a brain-controlled robot drops a baby? June 29, 2017 Brain-controlled robots are entering everyday life. Credit: Wyss Center, wysscenter.ch As brain-controlled robots enter everyday life, an article published in Science states that now is the time to take action and put in place guidelines that ensure the safe and beneficial use of direct brain-machine interaction. Accountability, responsibility, privacy and security are all key when considering ethical dimensions of this emerging field. If a semi-autonomous robot did not have a reliable control or override mechanism, a person might be considered negligent if they used it to pick up a baby, but not for other less risky activities. The authors propose that any semi-autonomous system should include a form of veto control - an emergency stop - to help overcome some of the inherent weaknesses of direct brain-machine interaction. Professor John Donoghue, Director of the Wyss Center for Bio and Neuroengineering in Geneva, Switzerland said: "Although we still don't fully understand how the brain works, we are moving closer to being able to reliably decode certain brain signals. We shouldn't be complacent about what this could mean for society. We must carefully consider the consequences of living alongside semi-intelligent brain-controlled machines and we should be ready with mechanisms to ensure their safe and ethical use." The video will load shortly Solving paralysis with a brain-computer interface. Activating paralysed muscles with the mind. The Wyss Center is developing a brain computer interface to not only control robotic prostheses but directly trigger movement in paralyzed limbs through thought alone. Credit: Wyss Center, wysscenter.ch "We don't want to overstate the risks nor build false hope for those who could benefit from neurotechnology. Our aim is to ensure that appropriate legislation keeps pace with this rapidly progressing field." Protecting biological data recorded by brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) is another area of concern. Security solutions should include data encryption, information hiding and network security. Guidelines for patient data protection already exist for clinical studies but these standards differ across countries and may not apply as rigorously to purely human laboratory research. An electroencephalography (EEG) cap is for measuring brain activity on study participant. Credit: Wyss Center, wysscenter.ch Professor Niels Birbaumer, Senior Research Fellow at the Wyss Center in Geneva (formerly at University of T bingen, Germany) said: "The protection of sensitive neuronal data from people with complete paralysis who use a BMI as their only means of communication, is particularly important. Successful calibration of their BMI depends on brain responses to personal questions provided by the family (for example, "Your daughter's name is Emily?"). Strict data protection must be applied to all people involved, this includes protecting the personal information asked in questions as well as the protection of neuronal data to ensure the device functions correctly." The possibility of 'brainjacking' - the malicious manipulation of brain implants - is a serious consideration say the authors. While BMI systems to restore movement or communication to paralysed people do not initially seem an appealing target, this could depend on the status of the user - a paralysed politician, for example, might be at increased risk of a malicious attack as brain readout improves. Credit: Wyss Center, wysscenter.ch Explore further: Conclusions on brain-machine interfaces for communication and rehabilitation More information: J. Clausen el al., "Help, hope, and hype: Ethical dimensions of neuroprosthetics," Science (2017). science.sciencemag.org/cgi/doi/10.1126/science.aam7731 Journal reference: Science Provided by: Wyss Center for Bio and Neuroengineering 10 shares feedback to editors Tweet Favorites Email Print PDF Featured Last comments Popular The mere presence of your smartphone reduces brain power, study shows Jun 26, 2017 1 Thwarting metastasis by breaking cancer's legs with gold rods Jun 26, 2017 0 Beyond bananas: Scientists harness 'mind reading' technology to decode complex thoughts Jun 26, 2017 1 Study finds new link between omega fatty acids and bowel cancer Jun 28, 2017 1 No detectable limit to how long people can live: study Jun 28, 2017 2 more   Medical Xpress on facebook Related Stories Conclusions on brain-machine interfaces for communication and rehabilitation October 5, 2016 In the journal Nature Reviews Neurology, the researcher Ander Ramos of Tecnalia, with Niel Birbaumer, lecturer at the University of T bingen, have expounded how brain-machine interfaces (BMI) use brain activity to control ... Brain-computer interface allows completely locked-in people to communicate January 31, 2017 A brain-computer interface that can decipher the thoughts of people who are unable to communicate could revolutionize the lives of those living with completely locked-in syndrome, according to a new paper publishing January ... Cognitive-related neural pattern to activate machines June 14, 2017 Brain-machine interfaces represent a solution for people with physical difficulties to communicate with their physical and social environment. In this work, researchers have identified a functional brain pattern in the prefrontal ... Study looks at how brainwaves can be used to nab passwords May 9, 2017 (Tech Xplore) Security sleuths have given us much to think about in recent years, reminding us, often alerting us, when our privacy may be at risk when using mobile and desktop items. Recommended for you Who is responsible if a brain-controlled robot drops a baby? June 29, 2017 As brain-controlled robots enter everyday life, an article published in Science states that now is the time to take action and put in place guidelines that ensure the safe and beneficial use of direct brain-machine interaction. Scientists find mechanism behind precise spinal cord development June 29, 2017 Scientists have uncovered how nerve cells in the spinal cord are organised in precise patterns during embryo development - a finding that could give insight into regenerative medicine. Controlling a single brain chemical may help expand window for learning language and music June 29, 2017 Learning language or music is usually a breeze for children, but as even young adults know, that capacity declines dramatically with age. St. Jude Children's Research Hospital scientists have evidence from mice that restricting ... The hippocampus underlies the link between slowed walking and mental decline June 28, 2017 The connection between slowed walking speed and declining mental acuity appears to arise in the right hippocampus, a finger-shaped region buried deep in the brain at ear-level, according to a 14-year study conducted by scientists ... Teenage weight gain linked to increased stroke risk as an adult June 28, 2017 Kids who become overweight during their teenage years may be more likely to develop a stroke decades later than kids who did not become overweight during those years, according to a study published in the June 28, 2017, online ... Study illustrates how the cortex assigns credit for causality June 28, 2017 When you do something right, you can't learn anything from your success without a system in the brain for assigning credit to whatever action led to the desired outcome. 0 comments Please sign in to add a comment. Registration is free, and takes less than a minute. Read more Click here to reset your password. Sign in to get notified via email when new comments are made.