Meng Jianzhu (R, front), head of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, attends the sixth international meeting of high-ranking security representatives held in Ulan-Ude, capital of Russian's eastern Siberian Republic of Buryatia, June 25, 2015. (Xinhua/Jia Yuchen) ULAN-UDE, Russia, June 25 (Xinhua) -- A top Chinese security official Thursday urged the international community to jointly fight against the new security threat of cyber terrorism. It is impossible for any country to fight alone against any kind of terrorist threat, said Meng Jianzhu, head of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee. Speaking at the sixth international meeting of high-ranking security representatives held in Ulan-Ude, capital of Russian's eastern Siberian Republic of Buryatia, Meng called on the international community to enhance international cooperation and exchanges in order to expand common ground and effectively fight against international terrorism. Meng said the Chinese government has carried out a series of legal measures to contain and suppress the propagation of terrorism on the Internet. Noting that international terrorism and radical extremists are currently on the rise, representatives from more than 70 countries and international organizations have agreed to strengthen international cooperation and coordination to effectively fight against newly-emerged and traditional terrorist threats. Also on Thursday, Meng and Russian representatives held the second meeting of institutionalized cooperation in law enforcement and security. As the security situations in the region and the international arena are undergoing profound changes, China and Russia have made fruitful achievements in such fields as anti-terrorism, law enforcement and security, they said. Both sides agreed to expand cooperation in law enforcement and security in order to create a peaceful and stable environment for the all-round cooperation between China and Russia. Meng also held bilateral meetings with representatives of other countries on the sidelines of the international meeting of high-ranking security representatives.   1 2 >>    1 2 >> 