RISING, the world top security software vendor, officially launches its Rising Cloud Security Data Center which is the first and biggest one in Asia. The Rising Cloud Security Data Center is the first big project in R&D investment of RISING Company in 2010. It is understood that this project has more than 130 million RMB as initial investment, and more than 5,000 professional enterprise-class servers, to provide high quality security testing, information exchange service in Rising Cloud Security, and Internet security threats processing services to more than 1,000 million users around the global. Within the Rising Cloud Security Data Center, all Rising security software users shall enjoy excellent services with faster new virus response, higher quality virus identification, and faster software update service. Besides a huge investment in hardware, Rising Cloud Security Data Center takes research achievements in computer database, distributed computing, and artificial intelligence technology, and also research achievements from more than 300 computer security engineers into this project. So the Rising Cloud Security Data Center efficiently performs the 5,000 professional enterprise-class servers, and ensures the whole Cloud Security system fast response, intelligent and much stable. So now, all Rising security software users around the global who joined the Rising Cloud Security shall enjoy faster virus identification upgrade service, powerful anti-Trojan solution, and excellent computer security defense services against latest virus, Trojan, Worm, spyware, and other malicious computer security threats. Rising Cloud Security Data Center inside view One Second for new virus automatic analysis and processing After the Rising Cloud Security Data Center launched, RISING Company shall continually improve the hardware equipments and the software core system framework; so the new virus program automatic analysis and processing shall be accomplished just in only 1 second. Meanwhile, the Rising Cloud Security Data Center can greatly improve Rising Cloud Security project of the software. With professional R&D team of more than 300 professional and experienced computer security engineers, and Internet Threats Automatical Analysis system, which has Rising Cloud Security as core and, combined with latest techniques in anti-virus, anti-Trojan, cyber crime, social engineering, and other fields, can protect computer users away from Internet threats efficiently. RISING provides excellent services to 150 million end users around the global Most efficient computer security solution RISING Company have built the world top, and the largest virus database of Asia. With almost 2 years time of running Rising Cloud Security, it is understood that there are more than 60 million virus samples in the database. So now, Rising security software can provide users the most efficient new virus protection, and protect computers away from the latest malicious threats. That s the original intention why RISING Company start Rising Cloud Security. With the Rising Cloud Security Data Center, Rising Company gradually forwards to its vision --- the world's most valuable information security products and services provider.