SAN CARLOS, Calif., April 20, 2017 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (NASDAQ:CHKP), today introduced Check Point Infinity, a revolutionary cyber security architecture designed to meet the critical security needs of enterprise organizations. Check Point Infinity is the first consolidated security across networks, cloud, and mobile, providing unparalleled threat prevention to keep customers protected against the growing number of cyber-attacks.  Check Point Infinity is the culmination of our overarching vision to build a security architecture that unifies the best security, the best intelligence and the best management that we can offer across networks, cloud and mobile,  says Gabi Reish, VP product management, Check Point.  This architecture is designed to ensure organizations are prepared to handle the changing dynamics of the IT future. The principle is very simple   a unified security architecture will keep businesses secure in every environment, with more efficient and effective IT operations.  Check Point Infinity delivers on this vision by uniquely combining three key elements: 1)One Security Platform: leveraging common platforms, threat intelligence sharing and open infrastructure to offer unparalleled security across all networks, cloud and mobile2)Preemptive Threat Prevention: focusing on prevention to block the most sophisticated known and unknown attacks before they happen3)Consolidated System: a single management, modular policy management & integrated threat visibility to efficiently centralize security through a single pane of glass Check Point Infinity empowers businesses to take control of their security and to protect and manage their entire IT operation as single cohesive architecture for the benefit of their business operations and their customers. Check Point arms customers with innovative and future-proof solutions Advancements in technology have fueled countless improvements in how organizations operate, but these developments have altered how businesses should approach security. Check Point Infinity addresses this need of a future-proof architecture and in addition introduces new capabilities: Security Management: The release of R80.10 features dozens of new capabilities and enhancements, including unique policy layers, security multi-zones and boosted performance to keep organizations protected against any threat, anytime and anywhere. Cloud: Check Point vSEC Cloud Security s updated comprehensive portfolio integrates with private and public cloud platforms ensuring cloud environments are protected. Mobile: The new SandBlast Mobile marks the industry s only unified, cross-platform solution, which protects enterprises from mobile breaches. SandBlast Mobile detects and blocks both known and unknown malware, safeguards against poisoned Wi-Fi networks and man-in-the-middle attacks, as well as SMS phishing schemes. Threat Prevention: Newly introduced Check Point Anti-Ransomware technology enables businesses to stay protected against cyber extortion and even the most sophisticated ransomware. Security Appliances: Check Point announces the new ultra-high-end 44000 and 64000 security gateways with the world s fastest threat prevention platform having 42 Gbps of Real-World Production Threat Prevention throughput and 636 Gbps of Real-World Production Firewall throughput. They also include multi-bladed chassis to support the dynamic needs of growing networks, while offering the highest reliability and performance needed for the future of cyber security.  Check Point Infinity will open the door for our customers to improve the security of their business as technology evolves by providing a unified architecture with leading threat prevention to all platforms - networks, cloud and mobile,  concluded Reish. For read more information on Check Point Infinity visit: http://blog.checkpoint.com/2017/04/20/check-point-infinity/ Follow Check Point via: Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/checkpointsw Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/checkpointsoftware Blog: http://blog.checkpoint.com YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/CPGlobal LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/check-point-software-technologies About Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (www.checkpoint.com) is the largest network cyber security vendor globally, providing industry-leading solutions and protecting customers from cyberattacks with an unmatched catch rate of malware and other types of threats. Check Point offers a complete security architecture defending enterprises   from networks to mobile devices   in addition to the most comprehensive and intuitive security management. Check Point protects over 100,000 organizations of all sizes. CONTACT: Investor Contact Kip E. Meintzer Check Point Software Technologies 650.628.2040 ir@us.checkpoint.com Media Contact li Donzanti heck Point Software Technologies 50.628.2030 ress@us.checkpoint.com /pre>