SAN CARLOS, Calif., March 30, 2017 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (NASDAQ:CHKP), today announced the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) has added four lines of Check Point security appliances to their Unified Capabilities Approved Products List (UC APL). UC APL certification qualifies designated Check Point alliances for sale to DoD agencies, based on stringent Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) testing - a standardized methodology for the secure installation and maintenance of computer software and hardware. Now approved for use on U.S. DoD networks, these security appliances have fulfilled interoperability (IO) and information assurance (IA) certification requirements. Check Point s 4000 Series, 5000 Series, 15000 Series and 23000 Series appliances with software version R77.30 are certified for the following capabilities: Data Firewall (DFW) Intrusion Protection System and Intrusion Detection System (IPS/IDS) Virtual Private Network Concentrator (VPN) These certifications, as well as a recent a certification by the NSA under the Commercial Solutions for Classified Program (CSfC), pave the way for greater utilization of Check Point products by U.S. defense and intelligence communities. As an established leader in cyber security technology, Check Point consistently innovates and builds products to meet and exceed the most stringent requirements set by the U.S. Government, the U.S. Department of Defense and internationally recognized organizations. Check Point s innovative cyber security solutions prevent the most sophisticated cyber-attacks against critical I.T. infrastructure and sensitive data requiring the highest security and confidentiality.  Government defense entities face cyber threats that are rapidly becoming more severe and frequent,  said Marianne Meagher, head of federal, Check Point.  Putting our products through rigorous DISA and UCCO certification testing demonstrates our firm commitment to providing the U.S. Department of Defense with cyber security that is unsurpassed for effectiveness against these mounting threats.  Check Point provides true preventative security through the industry s leading unified security architecture and management platform. These Check Point innovations streamline deploying and managing security controls across all networks and environments including data centers, cloud, mobile and endpoints. For more information on Check Point s other certification efforts and capabilities, visit: http://www.checkpoint.com/products/certifications/. Follow Check Point via: Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/checkpointswFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/checkpointsoftwareBlog: http://blog.checkpoint.com YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/CPGlobalLinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/check-point-software-technologies About Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (www.checkpoint.com) is the largest network cyber security vendor globally, providing industry-leading solutions and protecting customers from cyberattacks with an unmatched catch rate of malware and other types of threats. Check Point offers a complete security architecture defending enterprises   from networks and cloud deployments to mobile devices   in addition to the most comprehensive and intuitive security management. Check Point protects over 100,000 organizations of all sizes. CONTACT: INVESTOR CONTACT: ip E. Meintzer heck Point Software Technologies 1.650.628.2040 r@checkpoint.com MEDIA CONTACT: anjul Gupta heck Point Software Technologies 1.650.628.2424 ress@checkpoint.com  thsjihui   xgq