SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 13, 2017 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- RSA CONFERENCE BOOTH #3627 Ken Xie, founder, chairman of the board and chief executive officer at Fortinet  Facing an increasingly hostile threat landscape, businesses are expanding investments in infrastructure security but struggling to source the increasingly rare talent needed to implement and operate their solutions. As an industry-leader, Fortinet believes it is our responsibility to foster the development and continuing education of cybersecurity talent and close the cybersecurity skills gap. Opening Fortinet s Network Security Expert program to the public increases access to educational resources and creates new opportunities for current and future IT security professionals whose skills will be critical to ensure the continued growth of the digital economy.  News Summary Fortinet (NASDAQ:FTNT), the global leader in high-performance cybersecurity solutions, today announced that they are providing universal access to their Network Security Expert (NSE) training and certification program making it broadly available and free of charge. With the public availability of the NSE program, Fortinet is taking a massive step to engage a new generation of aspiring cybersecurity professionals by providing a gateway to attain the highly desirable and lucrative skills in the growing field of IT security. Starting today, Fortinet will offer NSE program level 1 courses to the public. Fortinet will follow with NSE program levels 2 and 3 in the second quarter of 2017. Closing the Cybersecurity Skills GapRecent reports highlight a massive shortage of professionals with the cybersecurity skills needed to combat the expanding volume and complexity of today s threat landscape. This cybersecurity skills gap poses challenges for enterprises who are unable to fill roles needed to defend their employees, data, investments, and bottom-line against increasing risks from cyber-attacks. Fortinet has long championed the cause to increase awareness, understanding, and knowledge within the global cybersecurity landscape. Launched in 2015, Fortinet s NSE program has quickly become an industry-standard in cybersecurity training and certification that fosters the continuing education of IT security professionals worldwide and helps close the cybersecurity skills gap. Proven Curriculum for Aspiring Cybersecurity Professionals As the primary program used to develop and maintain the skillsets of Fortinet employees, partners, and end users, Fortinet s NSE program utilizes a multi-level curriculum that progresses from cybersecurity fundamentals and overall context, up to advanced security implementation strategies and technical concepts. This program design has resulted in Fortinet issuing over 50,000 NSE certifications globally. Public demand for Fortinet s NSE program also drove the creation of Fortinet s Network Security Academy for public, primary, and post-secondary education institutions. These institutions partner with Fortinet and leverage the NSE curriculum to develop cybersecurity courses currently offered at schools in 46 unique countries. NSE 1 covers network security fundamentals and provides a historical context of the cybersecurity market. NSE 2 details the core security solutions used to address the challenges outlined in NSE 1. NSE 3 provides a deeper dive into advanced security products and capabilities used to defend against specific threats and vectors of attack. Supporting Quotes Professor Kris Rosenberg, Program Director, Information Technology and Cybersecurity at Oregon Institute of Technology Oregon Tech s IT and Cybersecurity degree programs are proud to partner with Fortinet as members of the Fortinet Network Security Academy. Working together, we are able to offer our students courses that combine cybersecurity theory and concepts with hands-on lab experience and advanced security solutions that prepare them to enter the workforce as skilled IT and cybersecurity professionals.  Additional Resources Please visit https://training.fortinet.com for more details about the Fortinet s Network Security Expert program. Follow Fortinet on Twitter and LinkedIn, and Facebook. Join the conversation on the Fortinet blog. Colleges and Universities who are interested in the Fortinet Network Security Academy can learn more and apply here. About FortinetFortinet (NASDAQ:FTNT) secures the largest enterprise, service provider, and government organizations around the world. Fortinet empowers its customers with intelligent, seamless protection across the expanding attack surface and the power to take on ever-increasing performance requirements of the borderless network - today and into the future. Only the Fortinet Security Fabric architecture can deliver security without compromise to address the most critical security challenges, whether in networked, application, cloud or mobile environments. Fortinet ranks #1 in the most security appliances shipped worldwide and more than 300,000 customers trust Fortinet to protect their businesses. Learn more at http://www.fortinet.com, the Fortinet Blog, or FortiGuard Labs. FTNT-O Copyright 2017 Fortinet, Inc. All rights reserved. The symbols and denote respectively federally registered trademarks and unregistered trademarks of Fortinet, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. Fortinet's trademarks include, but are not limited to, the following: Fortinet, FortiGate, FortiGuard, FortiManager, FortiMail, FortiClient, FortiCloud, FortiCare, FortiAnalyzer, FortiReporter, FortiOS, FortiASIC, Fortiwifi, FortiSwitch, FortiVoIP, FortiBIOS, FortiLog, FortiResponse, FortiCarrier, FortiScan, FortiAP, FortiDB, FortiVoice and FortiWeb. Other trademarks belong to their respective owners. Fortinet has not independently verified statements or certifications herein attributed to third parties and Fortinet does not independently endorse such statements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing herein constitutes a warranty, guarantee, binding specification or other binding commitment by Fortinet, and performance and other specification information herein may be unique to certain environments. This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve uncertainties and assumptions, such as statements regarding technology and functionality releases and release times. Changes of circumstances, product release delays or product priority or roadmap changes, or other risks as stated in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, located at www.sec.gov, may cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this press release. If the uncertainties materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. Fortinet assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, and expressly disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. CONTACT: Media Contact: Dan Mellinger ortinet, Inc. 15-572-0216 mellinger@fortinet.com Investor Contact: Kelly Blough ortinet, Inc. 08-235-7700 x 81612 blough@fortinet.com Analyst Contact: Ron Davis ortinet, Inc. 15-806-9892 davis@fortinet.com  thsjihui   wq