Security Solutions by AMAG, Identiv, ImageWare, McAfee, Nok Nok, Tyco and StrikeForce Are Discussed on SecuritySolutionsWatch.com NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Sep 25, 2015) - Identiv (NASDAQ: INVE), ImageWare Systems (OTCQB: IWSY); Intel (NASDAQ: INTC), StrikeForce Technologies, Inc. (OTC PINK: SFOR) AMAG Technology AMAG Technology Launches Policy-Based Platform Symmetry CONNECT  Symmetry CONNECT Helps Businesses Solve Security Challenges AMAG Technology is proud to announce the expansion of its product line to include Symmetry CONNECT . The enterprise-wide software platform helps large multi-site organizations to operate more efficiently -- mitigating risk, increasing safety, and reducing operating costs. AMAG Technology is an access control, video management and end-to-end security management system provider. Symmetry CONNECT offers multi-site organizations an easy to use software solution that automates process so companies more efficiently use their security system to secure their facility and meet industry specific compliance and audit requirements. Symmetry CONNECT allows organizations to build sustainable policies and automate manual disjointed procedures reducing manual errors and labor intensive processes. Users can be up and running the same day with the hosted solution, and there are no long term contracts or commitments to make. The flexible policy-based software platform easily expands or contracts as business needs dictate. "Businesses are suffering from rapid global growth and consolidation which means more disparate security systems, data and manual disjointed growth while striving to meet regulatory and compliance requirements," said AMAG Technology, President Matt Barnette. "Symmetry CONNECT automates manual processes thereby eliminating errors, streamlining data, minimizing risk and reducing cost to help companies meet audit and compliance requirements and provide a more secure environment." For more information, please click here, or here: http://www.amag.com/news/SConnect.aspx For our complete interview with Matt Barnette, President, AMAG, please click here or here: www.securitysolutionswatch.com/Interviews/in_Boardroom_AMAG_MattBarnette.html. For more information: www.AMAG.com ***** Identiv  Connect with Identiv and Cisco at the ASIS International 61st Annual Seminar and Exhibits, September 28 - 30, 2015, at Anaheim Convention Center, Anaheim, CA. Come and check out our new intelligent premises access control solution for a chance to win an Apple Watch! Identiv will also be providing demonstrations of its FICAM-compatible solution for the U.S. Federal government, as well as the latest Velocity 3.6 supporting IPV6. Identiv and Cisco at Booth 621 Identiv and Cisco Systems, Inc. have teamed up to provide solutions for the IoE. At ASIS, Identiv will be debuting its next-generation, networked PACS solution that interacts with other IoE elements, such as Cisco Video Surveillance Manager (VSM) cameras and Cisco voice-over-IP (VoIP) telephony products. Learn more about the Identiv and Cisco partnership. Request a Demo Experience a demo by scheduling a meeting during ASIS... TO SCHEDULE NOW CLICK HERE, OR HERE: http://identiv.actonsoftware.com/acton/ct/3355/s-04c3-1509/Bct/l-0111/l-0111:5/ct2_0/1?sid=KbqmOs6cq Identiv, Inc. (NASDAQ: INVE) also recently announced that it has partnered closely with Chronicled, Inc. to develop wearable sensors -- or SmartLabels -- to protect against counterfeiting of consumer goods. Chronicled eliminates knock-off sneakers from the market by tracking authenticity, ownership, and provenance of brand name shoes. Chronicled worked with Identiv Labs to develop a solution that validates each sneaker with innovative, high-security technology including NFC, Bluetooth, and digital certificates, integrated into a tamper proof SmartLabel. Chronicled joins more than 30 existing Identiv Labs customers who have partnered to bring their products to the Internet of Things (IoT). "As a $1 billion market, collectible sneakers are at risk for rampant counterfeiting," said Maurizio Greco, Chronicled CTO. "To combat fakes and re-instill trust and confidence, Chronicled is working with Identiv to create a 100-percent authenticated consumer platform. We plan to expand the use of authentication to other premium consumer goods, combating the more than $250 billion in counterfeit goods sold globally each year." The solution combines Identiv's expertise in identity verification through digital certificates and purpose-built secure hardware, establishing secure objects with a trusted SmartLabel for each item. Chronicled's identity for products is paired with a consumer mobile application, allowing users to check authenticity, track products as they are resold, and understand the full item history. The Chronicled platform will be supported by an open-source registry upon which developers, partners, and third parties can build. "Consumers no longer trust a simple printed label as a basis of authenticity, reducing trust and confidence in brand names," said Jason Hart, Identiv CEO. "SmartLabels are the next evolution -- the appearance of the product is not adversely affected as the sensor is small and can be hidden -- and consumers can be confident that what they are purchasing, wearing, and reselling is authentic. We're excited to be partnering closely with Chronicled to deliver the complete solution." Chronicled plans to launch its authenticated consumer platform utilizing SmartLabels near the end of 2015 and is initially targeting more than 15,000 pairs of sneakers. ***** ImageWare Systems, Inc. ImageWare Systems, Inc. (OTCQB: IWSY) (ImageWare), a leader in mobile and cloud-based, multi-modal biometric identity management solutions, has issued financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2015, as well as a corporate update to highlight the company's progress since its last quarterly update on May 11, 2015. Operational Highlights For more information and to register visit: http://www.beyond-border.com  ***** CARTES Discover an exclusive analysis about Mobile Biometrics made by CARTES SECURE CONNEXIONS and based on Juniper Research datas. CARTES SECURE CONNEXIONS 2015 will be held at the Paris-Nord Villepinte Exhibition Centre, from November 17 to 19, 2015. This 30th edition of the secure-connections sector's leading global event will showcase the world's most comprehensive range of Secure Payment, Connection and Identification solutions. Beyond the +400 international exhibitors, CARTES SECURE CONNEXIONS 2015 will offer over 140 conferences and 7 panel discussions, welcome more than 40 CEO speakers and host the internationally recognized SESAMES Awards. Discover the conference track about Biometrics ID on Tuesday November 17 chaired by Michelle Whitfield from Biometrics Institute. What are the main obstacles of Biometrics in Finance? Who Is Doing What to Protect My Mobile Device Data and How? Those topics among others will be treated during this session. Register and learn more about the conference programme: www.cartes.com ***** Cloud Expo Cloud Expo is the single show where delegates and technology vendors can meet to experience and discuss the entire world of the cloud. Cloud Expo 2015 Silicon Valley, November 3-5, 2015, at the Santa Clara Convention Center in Santa Clara, offers a vast selection technical and strategic Industry Keynotes, General Sessions, Breakout Sessions, and signature Power Panels. The exhibition floor features 100+ exhibitors offering specific solutions and comprehensive strategies. The floor also features a Demo Theater that gives delegates the opportunity to get even closer to the technology they want to see and the people who offer it. http://www.cloudcomputingexpo.com/ Big Data Expo Cloud computing is being adopted in one form or another by 94% of enterprises today. Tens of billions of new devices are being connected to The Internet of Things. And Big Data is driving this bus. Big Data Expo, November 3-5, 2015, at the Santa Clara Convention Center in Silicon Valley, is the place where you can see the technologies and use cases that are delivering Big Data to enterprise IT. Attend Big Data Expo and benefit from technical and strategic Breakout Sessions, General Sessions, Keynotes, Power Panels, and a large exhibition floor. http://www.bigdataexpo.net/ ***** Cyber Security Summit The Cyber Security Summit, an exclusive one-day conference, will take place in Boston on October 21st. The event will connect C-Suite & Senior Level Executives responsible for protecting their companies' critical infrastructures with cutting-edge technology providers and renowned information security experts. Thought leaders from The FBI, The NSA, Palo Alto Networks, Symantec, Intel Security, & many more will discuss threats, trends and available solutions. Comprised of business meetings, as well as keynote presentations, panel discussions and networking opportunities, our Summit delivers the most efficient & effective way to connect business leaders with the latest cyber security solutions for their enterprises. A catered breakfast, lunch, & cocktail reception are all included. For a limited time, executives can purchase full Summit passes for 50% off. Standard price -- $250. Use Promo-code SSWBoston and pay only $125. Government Executives / Active Military pricing: $50. Full event details: http://CyberSummitUSA.com Keep your organization at the forefront of cyber security and most importantly, secure! ***** Money20/20 October 25-28, 2015, The Venetian, Las Vegas, NV, United States http://money2020.com/register, http://money2020.com/, Info@Money2020.com, Organizer Email: Rob@Money2020.com Money20/20 is the largest global event enabling payments and financial services innovation for connected commerce at the intersection of mobile, retail, marketing services, data and technology. With 10,000+ attendees, including more than 1,000 CEOs, from over 3,000 companies and 75 countries, expected at its 2015 U.S. event, Money20/20 is critical to realizing the vision of disruptive ways in which consumers and businesses manage, spend and borrow money. The next Money20/20 will be held in Las Vegas, October 25-28, 2015, followed by Money20/20 Europe in Spring 2016. ***** Nordic IT Security - 3rd November 2015, Stockholmsm ssan, Sweden Over 500 participants have already registered for this year's Nordic IT Security, taking place on November 3rd, 2015 at Stockholmsm ssan, Sweden. This event is one of the biggest platforms for senior IT security professionals from across the Nordics and industry verticals. Over the course of one day, you will experience recent case studies, insightful demos, dedicated roundtables, in-depth workshops, technological lightning talks, and plenty of networking opportunities to give you greater insight on strategic implementations of the latest technology showcased in the Exhibition Hall. FREE tickets available (limited supply). Register here: www.nordicitsecurity.com/register-today ***** THIS PRESS RELEASE, AND ALL ADVERTISING, CONTENT AND ALL OTHER MATERIAL AND INFORMATION WHICH APPEARS ON SECURITYSOLUTIONSWATCH.COM AND/OR SECURITYSTOCKWATCH.COM, ONLINE AND/OR IN PRINT, IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS OF USE, CONDITIONS, AND DISCLAIMER HERE: www.securitysolutionswatch.com/Main/Terms_of_Use.html. Marketwired (Canada)September 25, 2015 - 12:01 AM EDTNews by QuoteMediawww.quotemedia.com  thsjihui   pm