SINGAPORE, Oct. 6 (Xinhua) -- The Cyber Security Agency of Singapore (CSA) has forged new partnerships with local and foreign companies to boost cyber security capabilities, announced Minister for Communications & Information Yaacob Ibrahim at the opening ceremony of Government Ware Conference on Tuesday. The partnership is part of the ongoing efforts to strengthen Singapore's cyber security posture and stay ahead of a rapidly evolving cyber security landscape, CSA said. This includes a Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with Singtel and two global cybersecurity firms, cyber security vendor Check Point as well as cyber security company FireEye, to develop new cyber security solutions and strengthen information sharing on cyber trends and cybercrimes. Furthermore, CSA and the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA) have also established the Cyber Security Associates and Technologists Programme (CSAT) to train and up- skill ICT professionals to acquire practical skills for specialized job roles for Cyber Security Operations. The programme is aimed at helping fresh and mid-career ICT individuals attain the necessary practical skills to better equip them for cyber security roles and positions. CSA and IDA will collaborate with industry partners for the training and up- skilling of ICT professionals. "We are excited to be taking these strides forward with our partners to enhance Singapore's cyber security capabilities as well as raise the quality of the industry and workforce," said David Koh, chief executive of CSA. "These partnerships pave the way for us to work closely together on innovative solutions to strengthen our cyber security core. We look forward to establishing more of such consequential partnerships to achieve the vision of a secure smart nation for Singapore." The GovernmentWare Conference is held at the Suntec International Convention and Exhibition Centre from Oct. 6 to 8 for participants from public and private sectors to come together to foster collaborations in cyber security.