Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong (L) and British Prime MinisterDavid Cameronattend a welcoming ceremony at the Istana in Singapore, July 29, 2015. David Cameron is on the second day of a two-day official visit to Singapore. (Xinhua/Then Chih Wey) SINGAPORE, July 29 (Xinhua) -- Singapore and the United Kingdom have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Cyber Security Cooperation during UK Prime Minister David Cameron's visit to Singapore on Wednesday. The MOU, signed between the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore (CSA) and the Cabinet Office of the United Kingdom, vows to work together to ensure a secure cyberspace that supports innovation as well as economic and social development for both countries. The signing ceremony was held at the Istana and witnessed by Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and UK Prime Minister David Cameron. The MOU covers cooperation in key areas including CERT to CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) cooperation and exchanges to enhance cyber security incident response, cyber R&D collaboration with the funding 5.1 million Singapore dollars for cyber security academic research over three years. Moreover, Singapore will also collaborate with UK Cyber Security Challenge for a Singapore edition of the new Massive Multiplayer Online Game (MMOG), which will make the city-state UK' s first international partner to licence an area of the MMOG. "This MOU paves the way for both Singapore and the UK to work closely together towards building a safe and reliable cyber space through enhanced research, talent development and information exchange. We look forward to bringing these initiatives to fruition in the coming months," David Koh, Chief Executive of CSA said. Related: Photo>> In pictures: British PM visits Singapore Photo>> British PM on two-day official visit to Singapore Photo>> British PM David Cameron visits Singapore British PM pays tribute to Lee Kuan Yew during visit to Singapore SINGAPORE, July 28 (Xinhua) -- British Prime Minister David Cameron paid tribute to Singapore's founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew during an official visit to the city state on Tuesday. Cameron said Lee's "characteristic energy, determination and vision" took Singapore from independence 50 years ago and made it "one of the greatest success stories of the modern world" at a lecture organized by Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore. Cameron also met with top business leaders from Singapore and Britain at a reception on Tuesday evening organized by UK Trade and Investment (UKTI) to promote business links between the two countries, said Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a statement. Full story