THE HAGUE, April 16 (Xinhua) -- A new Global Forum on Cyber Expertise (GFCE) was launched on Thursday, a concrete achievement on the first day of the two-day 2015 Global Conference on CyberSpace (GCCS) summit in The Hague. The GFCE is a platform for policymakers, practitioners and experts from different countries and regions. The goal is to share experiences, identify gaps in global cyber capacities, to complement existing efforts in capacity building, make available technical expertise as well as new funding to strengthen cyber security, help fight cybercrime, better protect our data and support e-governance. The platform, of which the administrative unit will be based in The Hague, was officially launched by Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs Bert Koenders, together with Minister of Security and Justice Ard van der Steur. Membership of the GFCE is open to all countries, intergovernmental organizations and private companies who subscribe to the Hague Declaration on the GFCE. So far the number of subscriptions is 42. "States can't act on their own," Minister Koenders said. "They will have to rely on other stakeholders. It is vital to include different stakeholders in a debate that could prove to be the next key dilemma in international security." "In the GFCE we will share our experiences and learn from participating nations and non-state actors," Van der Steur added. "All will benefit from getting the knowledge and best-practices together in one platform. Cyberspace will get better with this initiative, paving the way for further international cooperation." The four focus areas of the GFCE are: cybersecurity, cybercrime, data protection and e-governance. An annual high level meeting amongst members of the GFCE will evaluate progress made and discuss and formulate requirements as well as best practices in cyber capacity building. The platform is an example of the multi-stakeholder approach, supported by the countries and organizations present in The Hague. The call by Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte for a free, secure and open internet in his opening speech was also welcomed by the representatives.