Ukraine's government said on Tuesday it would submit a draft law to parliament for the country's tax deadline to be extended to July 15, and waive fines for companies who missed the previous June 13 cutoff because of the attack. "The peak of the attack has been recorded at 16: 00 local time". The minister of the Interior Arsen Avakov reported that the police Ukrainian had managed on Tuesday, to stop these attacks made via the accounting software M.E.Doc and that it had seized the servers of the company responsible for this program. Video released Wednesday showed men in camouflage carrying assault-style weapons storming the company's modest offices in Kiev as office workers calmly watched them. Ukraine claimed Wednesday that it had thwarted a fresh cyberattack that was to be carried out via a program blamed for spreading a virus that caused disruption across the globe last week. The exact motive for the cyberattack is unclear. An executive at the company was quoted by Interfax-Ukraine as saying the software was installed on 1 million machines across the country. "We identified a very stealthy and cunning backdoor that was injected by attackers into one of M.E.Doc's legitimate modules", ESET senior malware researcher Anton Cherepanov said in a technical note. Some said the malware epidemic was likely state-backed, and Ukrainian officials have squarely put the blame on the Kremlin. However, according to the Associate Press agency, under the MeDoc brand Intellect Services had released a statement acknowledging it had been hacked then deleted the statement, and branded allegations that it had been the propagator of NotPeya as "clearly erroneous" though ot noted it was working with authorities to tackle the outbreak. Information security experts say some of the money appears to have been used to purchase space on a darknet text storage site, where a statement demanding 100 bitcoin, or roughly $260,000, in exchange for unscrambling all the affected files materialized around the same time. "They knew about it", the official told the Associated Press. On Saturday Ukrainian intelligence officials accused Russian security services of being behind the attack, and cyber security researchers linked it to a suspected Russian group who attacked the Ukrainian power grid in December 2016.