Federal prosecutors rested their case Wednesday against Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), capping off a month of testimony in Newark federal court about his alleged corrupt dealings with a wealthy Florida eye doctor.After  that included jet pilots, former congressional staffers, federal officials, and one ex-senator, the government’s case ended with testimony from FBI agent Alan Mohl. He has been reading emails between Menendez and the senator’s staff that prosecutors say shows the lawmaker was determined to use his position to help his friend and donor.Menendez is accused of taking gifts — including a luxury hotel stay, flights on private jets, and hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions — from Salomon Melgen, in exchange for doing favors for the doctor.One of the last pieces of evidence entered in the prosecution case was an email Menendez wrote to a staffer in 2009, in which the senator said he was looking for “the best juice” he could find inside the federal government to help Melgen in a multimillion-dollar billing dispute with Medicare.In an earlier email from 2009, Menendez told a staffer to call Melgen immediately regarding “a Medicare problem we need to help him with.” That directive marked the beginning of a three-year effort that culminated in a 2012 meeting with then-Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, who, like every other official contacted by Menendez, declined to intervene in the dispute.  Mohl spent all Tuesday on the witness stand reading from the emails and other documents collected in the investigation. He was called back to testify again Wednesday, and when he finished prosecutors told the judge they had no more witnesses.The Medicare problem Menendez was referring to involved Melgen’s practice of “multi-dosing” an expensive eye drug — by splitting single vials of medication into multiple doses and billing Medicare for more than one vial. Medicare claimed Melgen overbilled the agency $8.9 million.Defense attorneys have argued that Menendez’s interest in the issue went beyond Melgen and reflected a concern about Medicare policy.But in their emails back and forth, Menendez and his staffers didn’t make any secrets about whom they were trying to help.“Dr. Melgen is still in the non-litigant stage, so we should determine who has the best juice at [the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services],” Menendez wrote to chief of staff Daniel O’Brien in August 2009.As Melgen’s appeal of the HHS ruling played out, Alan Reider, a Melgen lobbyist, told Menendez staffers that he believed Sebelius had the authority to make the case go away.Menendez’s office, meanwhile, worked on getting to Sebelius, an effort that included “encouraging and channeling outreach” from then-Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), who ended up hosting the August 2012 meeting with Sebelius.  as a witness in the trial.Another ex-senator, Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), , but his account of a meeting with Menendez on the Medicare billing issue was a mixed bag. At one point, Harkin said he took the meeting as a “courtesy’’ to Menendez, and said doing so was common among lawmakers.Menendez attorney Abbe Lowell argued the prosecution was selective in which emails it introduced as evidence and questioned why all of the various authors of the emails weren’t called to testify.As Menendez made his final attempts to argue his friend’s side in the Medicare dispute, prosecutors noted that Melgen gave $600,000 — two separate contributions of $300,000 — to a Democratic super PAC that was earmarked to the state of New Jersey. On the check stub of one of those contributions, Melgen said the money was for “B. Menendez.”Menendez is also accused of using his position to help Melgen’s girlfriends get visas to visit the United States. And prosecutors said he tried to get federal officials to help Melgen in a contract dispute the doctor was having with port security officials in the Dominican Republic.When the trial began in early September, Menendez made an emotional declaration of innocence outside the federal courthouse in Newark, insisting: “Not once have I dishonored my public office.”Outlining the 12-count indictment to the jury , prosecutor Peter Koski said the Menendez case “is what bribery looks like.”As the two sides have sparred over witnesses and documents, Menendez’s legal team has not contested most of the basic facts of the case. The senator does not deny pressing health officials on multi-dosing, or seeking to help Melgen’s girlfriends get approval to visit the United States. Instead, the defense has challenged the prosecutors’ charge that he did so in exchange for bribes that enabled the lawmaker to enjoy the finer things in life that he could not otherwise afford, such as a hotel stay in Paris or private flights to the Dominican Republic. Menendez’s lawyer insists he helped Melgen because he wanted to do so, because the two were such close friends.