Untangle believes that recognition by Gartner for the second consecutive year is a reflection of its ability to address the needs of SMB customers and distributed enterprises with network security solutions that are easy to buy, easy to deploy and easy to use. Untangle NG Firewall delivers a comprehensive solution for content filtering, malware and threat protection, secure Wi-Fi, application control, bandwidth optimization, virtual private networks and more. Untangle combines Unified Threat Management (UTM) to address all of the key network threats with policy management tools that enable administrators to monitor, manage and shape internet traffic. NG Firewall's fully customizable, industry-leading reports provide administrators an unprecedented level of insight into what's happening on their networks across all applications by user, group, time of day and more. Access to the full report of the June 2017 Magic Quadrant for the Unified Threat Management (SMB Multifunction Firewalls) market is available here. *Gartner "Magic Quadrant for Unified Threat Management (SMB Multifunction Firewalls)" by Jeremy D'Hoinne, Rajpreet Kaur, Adam Hils, June 2017. About the Magic Quadrant Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. About Untangle Untangle is an innovator in cybersecurity designed specifically for the below-enterprise market, safeguarding businesses, home offices, nonprofits, schools and governmental organizations. Untangle's integrated suite of software and appliances provides enterprise-grade capabilities and consumer-oriented simplicity to organizations with limited IT resources. Untangle's award-winning network security solutions are trusted by over 40,000 customers around the world. Untangle is headquartered in San Jose, California. For more information, www.untangle.com.   To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/untangle-named-to-gartners-2017-magic-quadrant-for-unified-threat-management-smb-multifunction-firewalls-300481990.html SOURCE Untangle Inc. Related Links http://www.untangle.com