Video PlayerClose BEIJING, April 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese lawmakers are considering revisions to the surveying and mapping law to protect geographic information security and raise public awareness of national territory. The amended draft was submitted to legislators for a second reading at the bimonthly session of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, which runs until Thursday. The revisions deal with the use of safe, reliable technology and equipment, managing navigation and positioning reference stations and supervision of Internet mapping services, said Xie Jingrong, a vice chairman of the Law Committee of the NPC. The revision has become more pressing as some extant clauses do not address current problems such as the leakage of information of Internet map service users, due to new business models including bike-sharing services. The bike-sharing system allows riders to locate the nearest bicycle through an interactive map in a mobile app, rent them by scanning a QR code on the bike, and leave them wherever the ride finishes, with no need to return them to a fixed station. In order to enable everyone to use maps that represent China's territory correctly, the draft law stressed that regulations on mapping should be followed in formulating, publishing or exhibiting maps. Internet map providers should use maps that are authorized in accordance with the law and protect the integrity of mapping data, it stated. The amendments suggest raising awareness of national territory should be included in the curricula of middle and primary schools. Governments at all levels and media outlets should increase people's awareness of national territory, it said. Lawmakers said that raising public awareness of national territory is an important part of patriotism education, it said. Violators could face fines up to 1 million yuan (over 145,000 U.S. dollars) or have their business licenses revoked, and could face criminal charges. Foreign offenders could be deported. The law was formulated in 1992 and amended for the first time ten years later.