WARSAW, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- The Polish National Security Council held a meeting on Monday to discuss a number of security issues, in particular the doctrine of Polish cyber security, local media reported. The doctrine is intended to indicate the strategic actions for the safety of the Polish information and communications technology space, the Polish Press Agency reported. "We are already at the stage of running specific programs aimed not only at strengthening the real resistance of the Polish state to the dangers, but also obtaining additional capabilities as a result of the strengthening of the Polish Armed Forces," the agency quoted Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski as saying after the meeting. According to Komorowski, the doctrine will be turned into a document as a result of the joint cooperation between the council, the Ministry of Defense and the government. The document, if completed, will regulate further actions of Polish state to ensure the country's cyber security, which has already been included in the National Security Strategy approved in November 2014. The doctrine also defines the main purposes of ensuring safe operations of state, public and private entities in cyberspace. It presents dangers, risks and opportunities of cyber security, both on the international and national levels. It also contains recommendations, such as staff training and development of national competence in cryptology. It also emphasizes the importance of providing a national control on highly computerized information systems of strategic importance. The National Security Council also discussed the implementation of priority tasks within a program of strengthening the country's security in 2015. The program, which was adopted by the government in December 2014, introduced the increasing of Polish defense expenditures to at least 2 percent of the country's GDP. The Council also discussed the issues of 2015 major arms tender procedures and their settlement, as well as the planned exercises of military system and the state's functioning in times of a potential crisis. Apart from the National Security Council's meeting, Poland is also carefully following the outside security situation. After the terrorist attacks in Paris, Polish Minister of Internal Affairs, Teresa Piotrowska said on Monday there was no need to raise the level of terrorist threat in Poland. She said that all of the country's services are constantly on full alert.