WASHINGTON, DC--Marketwired - September 04, 2015 - International security solutions developer, Gallagher, has today confirmed that their innovative PIV Solution will be installed for two Federal agencies residing at the World Trade Center. Purpose built for the U.S. Federal market, Gallagher''s PIV Personal Identity Verification Solution delivers state-of-the-art security architecture with the fastest form of authentication available. The Gallagher PIV Solution offers customers a lower total cost of ownership through an industry-leading hardware warranty, the ability to update end devices remotely, and a fully encrypted solution that performs PKI authentication without the need for external hardware modules.   "We are honored to be chosen to secure the Federal government in such an iconic building," said Brandy Sloan, Business Development Manager - Federal, at Gallagher. "The World Trade Center complex is symbolic of the American spirit and stands among the most well-known skylines on the planet."   Gallagher has partnered with eVigilant Security Inc. -- a leader in electronic and cyber security services for their expertise in FICAM compliant security installations. Vice President of Sales and Marketing for eVigilant, Dave Einsig, said, "We''re very proud to work with Gallagher to deliver world-class security solutions for our Federal Clients. The World Trade Center sites require end to end encryption that meets strict Federal standards so Gallagher''s next generation products are the perfect fit for these projects."   About Gallagher   A technology leader in integrated access control, intruder alarms management and perimeter protection, Gallagher''s security solutions are in use with national and local government, military, commercial, industrial, healthcare, transportation and academic organizations in more than 100 countries. A truly global operation, Gallagher provides proven protection to customers in Europe, North and South America, Africa, Australasia and South East Asia. Gallagher''s comprehensive security and business risk management solutions provide protection for large and small organizations throughout the world, addressing the key issues of security and risk management, personnel workflow and business continuity.   Visitsecurity.gallagher.comfor more information   Embedded Video Available:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dhNEy9Tegz8&index=5&list=PLCow1Q9JrnOCm6Y27pL8t-eoc4zfhyYb1 CONTACT INFORMATION For more information, please contact: Brandy Sloan Business Development Manager - Federal, Gallagher Tel: 571 259 4205