WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 (Xinhua) -- U.S. companies like Apple and Google should give the government built-in access to the encrypted data of their customers via "front doors" intentionally implanted in digital products, a senior security official said Monday. Michael Rogers, director of the National Security Agency (NSA), told a Washington cybersecurity forum that he shared concerns with FBI chief James Comey about last year's announcements from Apple and Google to offer new encryption tools on the operating systems of their smartphones, which cannot be broken even by the companies themselves as long as users store data on their own devices and not in the cloud. Rogers declined to comment on reports last week that the NSA had implanted spyware on computer hard drives for surveillance purposes and that it, along with Britain's Government Communications Headquarters, hacked into a major SIM card manufacturer's systems to steal encryption keys. According to Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based security software maker, the NSA has made a breakthrough in spying technique by embedding surveillance software in hard drives made by top manufactures. The latest findings could further hurt Washington's credibility in terms of guarding cybersecurity, already affected by leaks by fugitive U.S. whistleblower Edward Snowden. Related: Commentary: Kaspersky findings once again expose U.S. hypocrisy on cyber security BEIJING, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- The latest findings by cyber security firm Kaspersky Lab has once again brought to light the hypocrisy of the Unites States when it comes to cyber security. According to a report released by the leading security software giant, the so-called Equation Group, widely believed to be a veiled reference to the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), has mastered the technology know-how to implant spying softwares that are virtually impossible to wipe out. Full story U.S. makes breakthrough in spying technique: Russian experts MEXICO, Feb. 16 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), the notorious eavesdropper, has made a breakthrough in spying technique by embedding surveillance software in hard drives made by top manufactures, according to Kaspersky Lab, the Moscow-based security software maker. In a presentation unveiling a series of spying programs at a conference in Mexico on Monday, Kaspersky linked the techniques to Stuxnet, the NSA-led computer worm that disabled about 1,000 centrifuges in Iran's uranium enrichment program.