Wednesday, June 28, 2017 AUGUSTA,Ga. (WRDW/WAGT) -- With an increasing need for cyber employees, there is one big spot employers can turn to. Director of Masters in Public Administration at Augusta University William Hatcher said, "Augusta University offers those degrees, is growing those degrees and so we're going to be a really important player to making sure that the talent coming in and the talent we have, have the education for those jobs." Augusta University offers a Degree in Computer Sciences partnered with Cyber Security, allowing students to learn several skills. Augusta University Computer Science and Cyber Security Graduate Matthew Tennis said, "We have a certificate program at Augusta University for the Advanced Cyber certificate, I finished that, which includes digital forensics, network security, offensive operations." Augusta University also provides opportunities for students to learn more hands-on skills in clubs, like the cyber defense club. Augusta University Computer Science and Cyber Security Student Thomas Gordon said, "We do hacking so it's called red team, blue team and we have a defensive team and we try to setup a network where we're given a topology and we have to defend it from hackers." There's a need for cyber employees in almost every industry. Two big industries are retail and healthcare. "With healthcare how do we secure patient data, how do we solve the problems of the past with not only securing it but how do you secure it in transit how do you streamline the process and these are things were talking about doing," said Tennis. Those cyber skills have a price on them. "The education that is required, the technical skills that are required, how competitive those jobs are, the type of work your doing pushes that salary up," said Hatcher. As the cyber industry continues to grow in Augusta so does the University. "It's the perfect storm, things are really lining up here so if someone's out there considering going into cyber security or computer science or it this is the place to do it," said Tennis.