As concerns mount following reports of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, Gov. Andrew Cuomo is directing the state Cyber Security Advisory Board to review election infrastructure and determine if additional security measures are needed.  Cuomo's cyber security panel, which was created in 2013, includes Richard Clarke, a former adviser to four presidents. The board will be tasked with developing recommendations and coordinating with the state Board of Elections and county agencies.  The governor wants the advisory board to submit its recommendations within 90 days.  During its review, Cuomo's advisory board will collaborate with other state agencies, including the Department of Motor Vehicles and the Office of Information Technology Services.  The board's executive director is Dr. Peter Bloniarz. He's the former dean of the College of Computing and Information at the University at Albany.  Other members of the panel are: Shawn Henry, president and chief security officer of CrowdStrike Services; William Pelgrin, founder of the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center, CEO of CyberWA and board director and global strategic adviser for Global Cyber Alliance; and Philip Reitinger, president of Global Cyber. Although there hasn't been any credible reports of disruptions to New York's voting system, federal, state and local governments are taking additional steps in response to alleged Russian interference in last year's election.  It was revealed earlier this month that four New York counties, including Cayuga, used election software that was targeted by Russian hackers in 2016. The software was an electronic voter identification system and allowed poll workers to check voter registration data on a computer instead of in the traditional paper poll books.  The state Board of Elections said there's no reason to believe the software was compromised. But the state is still taking action to address any security gaps that may exist.  "The integrity of the electoral system is essential to a functioning democracy, and with those core American principles under attack, we must take decisive action to safeguard democratic integrity and expand voting rights," Cuomo said in a statement. 