"With BioTracker, CIOs and security professionals finally have control over the insider threat challenge," stated V. Adm. Mike McConnell, USN (Ret.), former Director National Security Agency (NSA) and Director National Intelligence, and independent board director at Plurilock Security Solutions. He added, "Using sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI), the Plurilock solution enables corporations to prevent, respond, analyze, and report to internal security departments and external compliance agencies on the actions performed by each workplace individual. Plurilock's unique solution proves to any compliance agency that you have full visibility and non-repudiation capabilities for the modern workforce." Under the agreement, Plurilock will work with the DoD's Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx), an agency that identifies emerging commercial technologies for the department's use. The DoD plans to strengthen its information security by integrating several multi-factor authentication technologies, including Plurilock's. DIUx has provided a clear and level playing field for the best disruptive technology to make its way into the hands of the warfighter. The department is evaluating Plurilock's technology as part of an effort to augment or replace the common access card or username/password forms of authentication. The department is creating a family of authenticators, all integrated and available based on time, risk, and environment, providing flexibility and enhancing security beyond the standard two-factor authentication commonly used today. Plurilock's patented "behavioural biometrics" software uniquely identifies people by the way they use their corporate computing devices, such as laptops, desktops, and servers. After just 20 minutes' tracking a user's keystroke style and speed, mouse use, and other behaviours, Plurilock's software builds a biometric profile unique to that user. Its patented continuous authentication algorithms enable the platform to know who is on the corporate network, where they are, and when they are there and to detect intruders, in real time. "Today's systems cannot verify user identity with certainty. Hackers steal passwords and tokens, create fake fingerprint impressions, and even re-route phone authentication codes, fooling computing devices and accounts into providing them with access. As a result, breaches may take months to detect and resolve. Furthermore, vendors now must spend much time and money maintaining records for compliance audits with their partners. For both cases, Plurilock's technology provides immediate solutions," said Plurilock's CEO, Ian Paterson. "Plurilock's advanced system for determining ongoing proof of presence provides a cybersecurity solution that instantaneously recognizes breaches, helps with corporate forensic investigations, and ensures regulatory compliance," stated Ian Paterson, CEO of Plurilock. ABOUT PLURILOCK: Plurilock delivers preventative, instantaneous, and continuous solutions for workplace authentication and regulatory compliance. Its software strengthens workplace cybersecurity using sophisticated behavioural biometrics to identify authorized users and neutralize insider threats. For more information, visit: www.plurilock.com   To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-department-of-defense-partners-with-plurilock-to-prevent-cybersecurity-threats-300481663.html SOURCE Plurilock Security Solutions Related Links http://www.plurilock.com