BEIJING, Feb. 12 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson on Thursday urged the United States to play an exemplary role in cyber security instead of pointing the finger at other countries. Spokeswoman Hua Chunying's remarks came as Assistant to the U.S. President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa O. Monaco delivered a speech in Washington D.C. on Tuesday on cyber defenses, saying that U.S. cyber "threats come from nations with highly sophisticated cyber programs including China." "China has reiterated its position on cyber security that China firmly opposes to and fights all forms of hacker attacks in accordance with law," said Hua at a daily press briefing. Calling hacker attacks a global problem, Hua said the international community should unite to address the threats. She suggests countries respect but not be suspicious of each other and cooperate but not point the finger at others so as to jointly safeguard peace, security, openness and cooperation over cyber space. "As a country with the most advanced and powerful cyber technology in the world, the United States should set itself as an example first for others on safeguarding cyber security," Hua said. She called on the United States to take more positive moves and contribute more to safeguarding mutual trust and cooperation in the cyber space. Related: Commentary: U.S. more of perpetrator than victim of cyber-attacks BEIJING, Feb. 10 (Xinhua) -- As the world marks another International Cybersecurity Day on Feb. 10, a fact has become increasingly clear: The United States, often disguised as a victim of hacker attacks, is more of a perpetrator causing havoc in cyberspace.  Full story China Voice: A safer Internet needs better governance BEIJING, Feb. 10 (Xinhua) -- As the world marked Safer Internet Day 2015 on Tuesday, which aims to promote safer and more responsible use of digital technology for children and young people, China was concerned about Internet safety in a broader sense.  Full story