BEIJING, Feb. 17 (Xinhua) -- The latest findings by cyber security firm Kaspersky Lab has once again brought to light the hypocrisy of the Unites States when it comes to cyber security. According to a report released by the leading security software giant, the so-called Equation Group, widely believed to be a veiled reference to the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), has mastered the technology know-how to implant spying softwares that are virtually impossible to wipe out. Such surveillance and espionage tools were found in computers and networks in Iran, Russia, Pakistan, China, Afghanistan and other countries closely watched by U.S. intelligence agencies, the report said. The disclosure invokes memories of shocking revelations by former NSA employee Edward Snowden, who brought to light for the first time the massive scope of the U.S. surveillance network that even includes eavesdropping on leaders of Washington's allies. While the Snowden case has upset mainly "friendly" nations who had deep if not unreserved trust in big-brother Uncle Sam, the Kaspersky findings will further raise suspicion among countries that Washington usually treats as hurdles in upholding its global supremacy. By constantly portraying itself as the prime target of hacker attacks, Washington intends to justify its attempt to seek dominance in cyberspace, just as it does in the real world. As a matter of fact, the United States has already have unrivaled clout in the cyberspace, with the world's major hardware and software companies mostly based in the country. The trick of playing victim on the one hand while massively embedding malicious software everywhere on the other actually serves as a perfect example for U.S. hypocrisy in regard to cyber security. The invention of the World Wide Web is indeed an epoch-marking event in human history since it makes the sharing of information between two geographically-apart entities remarkably more convenient. However, as every coin has two sides, the Internet has been increasingly taken advantage by countries, most notably the United States, in pursuit of their own interests at the expenses of others. Cyber security is a global responsibility. It is advisable that members of the international community refrain from unilateral and counterproductive action, and sincerely join hands in pushing for meaningful progress in the undertaking. For the United States, abandoning its hypocrisy therein would be a good start. Enditem