BEIJING, June 2 (Xinhuanet) -- Some western countries led by the United States have blamed China for violating the so called  Internet freedom.  In fact, cyberspace is by no means a space beyond law, but a space that should be ruled in accordance with a country's laws and regulations. No country will allow criminal activities with the use of Internet. U.S. adopts double standards The United States, claiming itself a fighter for freedom, has adopted double standards in Internet regulations. After the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the United States itself has enhanced surveillance over the Internet globally in the name of  protecting national security.  At the same time, it has continually criticized laws and regulations on online information flow in China, Russia and some other countries under the pretext of  Internet freedom . Obviously,  Internet freedom  touted by the United States is a false proposition, an online version of ideological subversion and infiltration practiced during the cold war time. What s more, the United States has fabricated the theory of  Internet threat  from China in an attempt to use cyber security issues to fulfill its political purposes. As a matter of fact, the United States which portrays itself as a victim of China s hacker attacks boasts of the core Internet technology, a technology which is far more powerful than that of China. The only main root server supporting the functioning of the global Internet is based in the United States; nine out of 12 sets of auxiliary root servers are also in the United States whereas none of such servers is based in China. The global Internet domain names and IP address allocation system are controlled by the United States, which poses serious threats to other countries. If the United States continues to use its double standards to point finger at others and practice  microphone diplomacy,  the consequences surely will be counterproductive.  Internet threat  from China is groundless China is precisely a major victim of cyber hacking though it is described by many as a  threat . According to the latest statistics of the National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Center (known as CNCERT or CNCERT/CC), more than 19.78 million mainframes in China were controlled by over 105,000 servers via trojans or botnet, of which 64,000 servers were from overseas in 2015. Moreover, a total of 24,000 smart industrial equipment in China were controlled by IPs based in the United States. In addition, some anti-Chinese forces have implanted backdoor illegal information in the websites of scientific research institutions and academic groups, and some even encrypted it on the cloud service platforms like Google and Amazon, greatly threatening China s Internet security. With its leading cyberspace technology and control of core resources, the United States has dominated the international cyber discourse. In this case, its repeated hyping of  Internet threat  from China is entirely groundless. Safeguarding cyberspace security is a common interest of the international community Safeguarding cyberspace security is a common interest of the international community. All countries around the world should make cyber security a new bright spot of international cooperation instead of contentions. Cooperation is absolutely better than confrontation. And China is willing to work together with the international community to safeguard peace and security of the cyberspace on the basis of mutual respect and trust, and jointly promote the building of an open, safe, peaceful and cooperative cyberspace for all.