BEIJING, Nov. 26 (Xinhuanet) -- Network security against hackers and malicious website invaders has been the subject of great concern worldwide. A college student in Beijing has successfully made his debut in the hackers world. However, he vows to protect network security. One of the world's best hackers. He's also a doctoral student in Tsinghua University, Beijing. A voluntary "white hat" hacker, he started a small company aiming to protect network security. Yang Kun, Chief Security Researcher of Changting Technology Company said:"Unlike other start-ups, we have already established an international reputation through dozens of hackers' conferences, including the DEFCON Capture The Flag finals - the world's No.1 network security competition - and won the top 5 team awards. We are a great team. That's why we started this company before graduation. The best crew in this field should be gathered together to make a difference to the world, to realize our social values." Very ambitious. But the challenges came from no one else but themselves. "At first we thought, with all our reputation, we would be easily successful. But none of us has had any experience in marketing or managing. Facing fierce competition,we decided to study the market first, to see who our target audiences are and what they want," said Yang. For a startup company, that means courage, and endurance. Wang Jian, COO of Changting Technology Company said:"In the first year, all our clients were friends or acquaintances. It was a hard time, but we became more mature business owners. This July, we got 6 million RMB angel investment, and that's the funding for our 'zero-pay plan'. This plan provides free body-check of network systems for small and medium-sized companies. I think this plan will attract more clients and raise their awareness of network security." Symantec, IBM, and HP control up to 75 percent of the world's market, leaving countless network security companies competing for the rest of the market share. But for small start-up companies like Changting Technology, every treatment for every client closes doors against malicious hackers, and makes the network environment a bit safer. (Source: CNTV.cn)