BEIJING, Sept. 22 (Xinhuanet) -- The White House says the US and China won't be announcing a formal cyber security agreement, though they are working on a framework for cooperation. The comments by senior White House official Ben Rhodes come just before the official state visit of President Xi Jinping. The White House has been under pressure to address the issue of cyber security during the visit of President Xi Jinping to Washington later this week. Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes doesn't expect a formal agreement on cyber security. "I wouldn't say that there's been some formal agreement that's been reached. But I do think that we've had constructive discussions about what does that framework look like, how we can address these issues, not purely as competitors, but also as two countries that have a stake in a world in which business can operate without fear that their secrets are going to be stolen by cyber actors," White House deputy national security advisor Ben Rhodes said. The New York Times reports the two sides have been working towards an agreement to be announced during President Xi's visit to the White House. The newspaper says this may include an embrace of a U.N. code of conduct, which includes commitments on avoiding cyber attacks on critical public infrastructure, like hospitals and power stations. But Ben Rhodes says the emphasis is currently on business issues. "What we're most focused on is trade secrets and the ability of business to operate without fear that they're going to be subject of cyber attacks that steal their intellectual property," Rhodes said. China's Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai says he hopes the two sides can work more closely to address a range of cyber issues. "I think this is the common interest, so I believe the two countries have to focus on this common need, try to work out a set of rules or joint approach, to deal with this new issue, rather than accusing each other and having some conflicts, even confrontations in this area. Because it will not help us to solve the problem, it will only make things worse for both countries," Cui said. It's not yet clear whether during President Xi's visit to Washington the two sides will announce a resumption of the U.S.-China Cybersecurity Working Group, following China's decision to suspend the dialogue last year. (Source: CNTV.cn)