BRUSSELS, May 17 (Xinhua) -- The Council of the European Union (EU) formally adopted new rules to step up the security of network and information systems across the EU on Tuesday. The network and information security (NIS) directive would increase cooperation between EU member states on the vital issue of cyber security, said the council. It lays down security obligations for operators of essential services, in critical sectors such as energy, transport, health and finance, and for digital service providers including online marketplaces, search engines and cloud services. Each EU member state would also be required to designate one or more national authorities and to establish a strategy for dealing with cyber threats, said the council. The Netherlands presidency together with the EU Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) has already started preparing the implementation of the directive. To conclude the procedure, the legal act must still be approved by the European Parliament, and the directive is expected to enter into force in August 2016, said the Council. Related: Bulgaria needs to improve cyber security: president SOFIA, April 14 (Xinhua) -- Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev said here on Thursday after a meeting of the Consultative Council on National Security (CCNS) that his country needed to improve cyber security amid intense attacks. "Recently, Bulgaria has been a subject of intense cyber attacks against information infrastructures of the country, including against critical infrastructure and government institutions," said Plevneliev after the meeting which was dedicated to the national cyber security policy. Full Story Singapore, UK enhance cyber security research collaboration SINGAPORE, Dec. 16 (Xinhua) -- Six new joint research projects will enhance cyber security research collaboration between the United Kingdom and Singapore, said Singapore's National Research Foundation (NRF) on Wednesday. UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and NRF announced a joint research call of 5.1 million Singapore dollars (3.6 million U.S. dollars) to fund the projects over the next three years, said NRF in the news release. Full Story