By Abu Hanifah JAKARTA, Jan. 6 (Xinhua) -- Indonesia is now preparing to set up an agency aimed to tackle fake news and rumors that rampantly spread through social media and internet messaging applications and protect state institutions from being intruded by hackers. The setting up of the agency, namely National Cyber Agency (BCN) was to address the president's aim to curb discussions on sensitive issues and the circulation of fake news and rumors that may split the society. Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Security Politics and Legal Affairs Wiranto said that BCN would cooperate with the existing cyber-watcher institutions run by defense ministry, national intelligence agency and police cyber security. Wiranto said that establishment of BCN was necessary to curb the sprawling untrue information, slander, and spreading hate among the public that could jeopardize the nation's unity and stability. "Democracy endorses freedom of speech, but people must abide by the law," Wiranto said in his office on Thursday. The senior minister, who is a former military commander, said that related ministries and institutions were now preparing the formation of officials in charge of BCN operation. BCN and other institutions will coordinate to monitor news circulated online and information spreading through internet-based communication mechanism. The idea to establish BCN initially came up in January 2015 when President Joko Widodo attached the importance to establish a supreme institution in strengthening the capabilities of vital state institutions from being hacked by foreign parties. The plan was cancelled in mid last year due to limitation of state budget to finance the institution's operation. President Widodo raised up again the idea in a cabinet meeting last month to address government's focuses in combating terrorism and fake news and rumors among the society this year. Widespread of fake news and rumors through the social media has entered a considerable degree as 130 million people are active internet users in Indonesia.